
===== PAGE 1 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation:
Challenges, Representations, and Algorithms
Oliver Kroemer*
okroemer@andrew.cmu.edu
School of Computer Science
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA
Scott Niekum*
sniekum@cs.utexas.edu
Department of Computer Science
The University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712, USA
George Konidaris
gdk@cs.brown.edu
Department of Computer Science
Brown University
Providence, RI 02912, USA
Abstract
A key challenge in intelligent robotics is creating robots that are capable of directly in-
teracting with the world around them to achieve their goals. The last decade has seen
substantial growth in research on the problem of robot manipulation, which aims to exploit
the increasing availability of aﬀordable robot arms and grippers to create robots capable of
directly interacting with the world to achieve their goals. Learning will be central to such
autonomous systems, as the real world contains too much variation for a robot to expect
to have an accurate model of its environment, the objects in it, or the skills required to
manipulate them, in advance. We aim to survey a representative subset of that research
which uses machine learning for manipulation. We describe a formalization of the robot
manipulation learning problem that synthesizes existing research into a single coherent
framework and highlight the many remaining research opportunities and challenges.
Keywords:
Manipulation, Learning, Review, Robots, MDPs
1. Introduction
Robot manipulation is central to achieving the promise of robotics—the very deﬁnition of
a robot requires that it has actuators, which it can use to eﬀect change on the world. The
potential for autonomous manipulation applications is immense: robots capable of manip-
ulating their environment could be deployed in hospitals, elder- and child-care, factories,
outer space, restaurants, service industries, and the home. This wide variety of deployment
scenarios, and the pervasive and unsystematic environmental variations in even quite spe-
cialized scenarios like food preparation, suggest that an eﬀective manipulation robot must
be capable of dealing with environments that neither it nor its designers have foreseen or
encountered before.
. * Oliver Kroemer and Scott Niekum provided equal contributions.
©2020 Oliver Kroemer, Scott Niekum, and George Konidaris.
License: CC-BY 4.0, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
arXiv:1907.03146v3  [cs.RO]  6 Nov 2020

===== PAGE 2 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
Figure 1: Overview of the structure of the review.
Researchers have therefore focused on the question of how a robot should learn to manip-
ulate the world around it. That research has ranged from learning individual manipulation
skills from human demonstration, to learning abstract descriptions of a manipulation task
suitable for high-level planning, to discovering an object’s functionality by interacting with
it, and many objectives in between.
Some examples from our own work are shown in
Figure 2.
Our goal in this paper is twofold. First, we describe a formalization of the robot manipu-
lation learning problem that synthesizes existing research into a single coherent framework.
Second, we aim to describe a representative subset of the research that has so far been
carried out on robot learning for manipulation. In so doing, we highlight the diversity of
the manipulation learning problems that these methods have been applied to as well as
identify the many research opportunities and challenges that remain.
Our review is structured as follows. First, we survey the key concepts that run through
manipulation learning, which provide its essential structure (Sec. 2). Section 3 provides
a broad formalization of manipulation learning tasks that encompasses most manipulation
problems but which contains the structure essential to the problem.
The remainder of the review covers several broad technical challenges. Section 4 con-
siders the question of learning to deﬁne the state space, where the robot must discover the
relevant state features and degrees of freedom attached to each object in its environment.
Section 5 describes approaches to learning an environmental transition model that describes
how a robot’s actions aﬀect the task state. Section 6 focuses on how a robot can learn a
motor control policy that directly achieves some goal, typically via reinforcement learning
(Sutton and Barto, 1998), either as a complete solution to a task or as a component of
that solution. Section 7 describes approaches that characterize a motor skill, by learning a
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Figure 2: Example manipulation skills including inserting, stacking, opening, pushing, cut-
ting, screwing, pouring, and writing.
description of the circumstances under which it can be successfully executed, and a model
of the resulting state change. Finally, Section 8 surveys approaches to learning procedural
and state abstractions that enable eﬀective high-level learning, planning, and transfer.
2. Common Concepts in Learning for Manipulation
Manipulation tasks have signiﬁcant internal structure and exploiting this structure may
prove key to eﬃcient and eﬀective manipulation learning. Hence, before formalizing the
manipulation learning problem, we will ﬁrst discuss this internal structure.
2.1 Manipulations as Physical Systems
Every manipulation involves a physical robot interacting with its environment. As a result,
all manipulations are subject to the laws of physics and the structure that they impose.
This fairly obvious statement has wide-reaching implications for manipulation learning al-
gorithms. Basic physical concepts (e.g., distinct objects cannot occupy the same space, and
gravity applies a mass-dependent force to objects) provide strong prior knowledge for ma-
nipulation tasks. Concepts from physics, such as irreversible processes and object masses,
are so fundamental that we generally take them for granted. However, these concepts pro-
vide invaluable prior knowledge and structure that can be exploited by learning algorithms
and thus make learning manipulation skills tractable. Most of the concepts discussed in
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
the remainder of this section are to some extent the result of manipulations being physical
processes.
2.2 Underactuation, Nonholonomic Constraints, and Modes in Manipulations
Manipulation tasks are almost always characterized as underactuated systems. Even if the
robot is fully actuated, inanimate objects in the environment will contribute a set of inde-
pendent state variables to the state space, but not increase the robot’s action space. The
resulting discrepancy between the number of actuators and the number of DoFs means that
the system is underactuated. To change the state of the objects, the robot must ﬁrst move
into a state from which it can alter the object’s state and then apply the desired manipula-
tion, e.g., make contact with an object and then push the object. These requirements can
be represented as a set of nonholonomic constraints that deﬁne how the robot can move
through the full state space based on diﬀerent interactions with the environment.
Manipulation tasks can be modelled as hybrid systems, wherein the system dynamics
are continuous within each of a number of discrete dynamical modes. The dynamics are thus
piecewise continuous. In manipulation tasks, the mode switches often correspond to making
or breaking of contacts, with diﬀerent contacts applying corresponding constraints and
allowing the robot to interact with various objects. The conditions for transition between
modes often correspond to subgoals or obstacles depending on which state variables the
robot should change or keep constant. Unfortunately, modes also make manipulation tasks
inherently discontinuous. Hence, small changes in the state can have a signiﬁcant eﬀect on
the outcome of a manipulation. It is therefore important that robots monitor their skill
executions for unexpected and undesired mode transitions.
2.3 Interactive Perception and Veriﬁcation
Robots can perceive certain latent object properties by observing the outcomes of diﬀerent
manipulation actions. This process is known as interactive perception. Many properties of
objects, such as material or kinematic constraints, can only be determined reliably through
interactive perception. If the goal of the task is to alter a latent property, then the robot
will need to use interactive perception to verify that the manipulation was successful, e.g.,
pulling on a door to ensure it was locked. Even if a property’s value can be approximated
using passive perception, interactive perception often provides a more accurate estimate.
In some cases, the estimate from the interactive perception can be used as the ground truth
value for learning the passive perception. Interactive perception thus provides the basis for
self-supervised learning. As the perception depends on the action, interactive perception
is often combined with active learning to actively select actions that maximize learning
performance.
2.4 Hierarchical Task Decompositions and Skill Reusability
Manipulation tasks exhibit a highly hierarchical structure. For example, the task of cleaning
a house can be divided into subtasks, such as cleaning the dishes, vaccuuming the ﬂoors,
and disposing the trash. These subtasks can then be further divided into smaller subtasks,
such as grasping a plate or trashbag. Even basic skills, such as grasping, can be further
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
divided into multiple goal-oriented action phases. This hierarchy divides the primary task
into smaller, more tractable problems. The robot can learn skill policies for performing
the lowest level tasks and then use these skills as an action basis for performing the next
level of tasks. The robot can thus incrementally learn a hierarchical policy of skills, with
the resulting policy hierarchy reﬂecting the task hierarchy. The complexity of the learning
challenges at each level of the hierarchy is reduced, enabling faster skill learning.
The hierarchy is also important because it results in a modular structure. Subtasks
and skills can often be interchanged to perform tasks in diﬀerent ways depending on the
scenario. Modularity also allows for some components to be predeﬁned and others learned,
e.g., an agent may be provided with a basic grasping reﬂex. More importantly, similar
tasks will often appear multiple times within the hierarchy. For example, when cutting
vegetables, each slice of the vegetable is a separate and slightly diﬀerent task. These tasks
are however similar enough that the robot should generalize across them rather than treat
them as distinct with unique skills. We refer to such sets of similar tasks as task families.
By exploiting the similarity of these tasks, the robot can eﬃciently learn skills across en-
tire task families and can thus be reused multiple times. The ability to incorporate this
modularity into the robot’s controllers and models is conditioned on having a suitable task
decomposition. Discovering this structure autonomously by the robot is thus a major topic
for manipulation research.
2.5 Object-Centric Generalization
One common structural assumption for manipulation tasks is that the world is made of up
objects and that the robot’s goals will typically be to modify some aspect or attribute of
a particular set of objects in the environment. Consequently, generalization via objects—
both across diﬀerent objects, and between similar (or identical) objects in diﬀerent task
instances—is a major aspect of learning to manipulate. Object-centric representations of
manipulation skills and task models are often suﬃcient to generalize across task instances,
but generalizing across diﬀerent objects will require both motor skills and object models
that adapt to variations in object shape, properties, and appearance. In some cases this
can be done implicitly—e.g., with a compliant gripper that automatically adapts its shape
to that of an object during grasping. One powerful approach to generalizing across objects
is to ﬁnd an abstract representation under which we can consider a family of objects to be
equivalent or identical, even though they vary substantially at the pixel or feature level,
and adapt accordingly.
2.6 Discovering Novel Concepts and Structures
Robots working in unstructured environments will often come across new types of objects.
Performing new tasks with these objects may require adapting existing skills or learning
entirely new skills. Learning in open-world environments is thus not just a matter of the
robot ﬁlling in gaps in its knowledge base. Instead, the scope of the knowledge bases will
continue to expand, sometimes in unforeseen ways. The ability to handle novel concepts is an
important aspect of robot autonomy, as it allows robots to handle unforeseen situations. To
operate eﬃciently, robots will need to be capable of generalizing and transferring knowledge
from prior experiences to structure the learning processes for these new concepts. This
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
transfer learning may require more abstract reasoning depending on the similarity of the
new concept to previous ones. Fortunately, as explained in this section, manipulation tasks
exhibit a signiﬁcant amount of structure that an autonomous robot can leverage when
learning manipulation tasks.
3. Formalizing Manipulation Learning Tasks
Robot learning problems can typically be formulated as individual Markov Decision Pro-
cesses (or MDPs),1 described as a tuple:
(S, A, R, T, γ),
where S ⊆Rn is a set of states; A ⊆Rm is a set of actions; R(s, a, s′) is a reward function,
expressing the immediate reward for executing action a in state s and transitioning to
state s′; T(s′|s, a) is a transition function, giving the probability distribution over states s′
reached after executing action a in state s; and γ ∈[0, 1] is a discount factor expressing the
agent’s preference for immediate over future rewards. Here the goal of learning is to ﬁnd a
control policy, π, that maps states to actions so as to maximize the return, or discounted
sum of future rewards P∞
i=0 γiri, for that speciﬁc problem.
This common formulation captures a wide range of tasks, enabling researchers to develop
broadly applicable general-purpose learning algorithms. However, as we have discussed in
the previous section, the robot manipulation problem has more structure; a major task
for robot manipulation researchers is to identify and exploit that structure to obtain faster
learning and better generalization. Moreover, generalization is so central to manipulation
learning that a multi-task formulation is needed. We therefore model a manipulation learn-
ing task as a structured collection of MDPs, which we call a task family. Rather than being
asked to construct a policy to solve a single task (MDP), we instead aim to learn a policy
that generalizes across the entire task family.
A task family is a distribution, P(M), over MDPs, each of which is a task. For example,
a door-opening task family may model each distinct door as a separate task. Similarly, a
vegetable-cutting task family may model each individual slice as a task. The action space
is determined by the robot and remains the same across tasks, but each task may have its
own state space and transition and reward functions. The reward function is formulated
as a robot-dependent background cost function C —shared across the entire family—plus
a reward Gi that is speciﬁc to that ith task:
Ri = Gi −C.
The state space of the ith task is written as:
Si = Sr × Sei,
where Sr is the state of the robot and Sei is the state of the ith environment. Sei can
vary from raw pixels and sensor values, to a highly pre-processed collection of relevant task
1. We should note that the Partially-Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) (Kaelbling et al.,
1998) is a more accurate characterization of most robot learning problems.
While these have been
employed in some cases (Hsiao et al., 2007; Vien and Toussaint, 2015a,b, for example), the diﬃculty of
solving POMDPs, especially in the learning setting, means their usage here is so far uncommon.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
variables. Many task environments will consist of a collection of objects and the variables
describing the aspects of those objects that are relevant to the task. It is therefore common
to model the environment as a collection of object states, resulting in a more structured
state space where Sei is partly factorized into a collection of relevant object states:
Sei = Swi × Ωi
1 × ... × Ωi
ki,
where Swi is the state of the general environment, Ωi
j is the state of the jth relevant ob-
ject in task i, and task i contains ki objects. The number of relevant objects may vary
across, and occasionally within, individual tasks. Modeling tasks in this factorized way
facilitates object-centric generalization, because policies and models deﬁned over individ-
ual objects (or small collections of objects) can be reused in new environments containing
similar objects. This factorization can be clearly seen in symbolic state representations,
wherein the modularity of proposition-based (e.g., CupOnTable=True) or predicate-based
(e.g., On(Cup,Table)=True) representations allows the robot to consider only subsets of
symbols for any given task. For manipulation tasks, we often employ predicate-based rep-
resentations for their explicit generalization over objects.
Manipulation tasks also present modularity in their transition functions, i.e., the robot
will only be able to aﬀect a subset of objects and state variables from any given state. To
capture the underactuated nature of manipulation tasks, we can model the tasks as hybrid
systems with piecewise continuous dynamics. Each of the continuous dynamical subsystems
is referred to as a mode, and the state will often contain discrete variables to capture the
current mode. Mode switches occur when the robot enters certain sets of states known as
guard regions, e.g., when the robot makes or breaks contact with an object. The robot can
thus limit the state variables that it may alter by restricting itself to certain modes.
In some cases there is also structure in the action space, exploited through the use of
higher-level actions, often called skills. Such skills are typically modeled using the options
framework (Sutton et al., 1999), a hierarchical learning framework that models each motor
skill as an option, o = (Io, βo, πo), where:
• Io : S →{0, 1} is the initiation set, an indicator function describing the states from
which the option may be executed.
• βo : S →[0, 1] is the termination condition, describing the probability that an option
ceases execution upon reaching state s.
• πo is the option policy, mapping states in the option’s initiation set to low-level motor
actions, and corresponding to the motor skill controller.
The robot may sometimes be pre-equipped with a set of motor skills that it can reuse across
the family of tasks; in other settings, the robot discovers reusable skills as part of its learning
process.
One of the key challenges of learning a policy, or domain knowledge, across a task
family is the need to transfer information from individual tasks to the whole family. A
robot can learn the policy to solve a single task as a function of the task state. However,
transferring these functions across the family is not trivial as the tasks may not share the
same state space.
Transfer may be aided by adding extra information to the task—for
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
example, information about the color and shape of various objects in the task—but since
that information does not change over the course of a task execution, it does not properly
belong in the state space.
We model this extra information as a context vector τ that
accompanies each task MDP, and which the robot can use to inform its behavior. Like the
state space, the context can be monolithic for each task or factored into object contexts.
To generalize across a task family, the robot will often have to learn policies and models as
functions of the information in the context vector. For example, a cutting skill needs to be
adapt to material properties of diﬀerent vegetable, or a door-opening skill needs to adapt
to the masses and sizes of diﬀerent doors.
In summary, our model of a family of manipulation tasks therefore consists of a task
family speciﬁed by a distribution of manipulation MDPs, P(M). Each manipulation MDP
Mi is deﬁned by a tuple Mi = (Si, A, Ri, Ti, γ, τi), where:
• Si = Sr × Sei, is the state space, where Sr describes the robot state, and Sei the
environment state. Often the environment state is primarily factored into a collection
of object states: Sei = Swi × Ωi
1 × ... × Ωi
ki, for a task with ki objects;
• A is the action space, common across tasks, which may include both low-level primitive
actions and a collection of options O;
• Ri = Gi−C is the reward function, comprising a background cost function C (common
to the family) and a task-speciﬁc goal function Gi;
• Ti is the transition function, which may contain exploitable structure across the se-
quence of tasks, especially object-centric structure;
• γ is a discount factor, and
• τi is a vector of real numbers describing task-speciﬁc context information, possibly
factored into object context: τi = τ i
1 × ... × τ i
k, for k objects.
Overview of Learning Problems for Manipulation:
The learning problems posed
by manipulation tasks can typically be placed into one of ﬁve broad categories, which we
will discuss in the subsequent sections. An overview of the topics covered in this review are
shown in Fig. 3.
When learning to deﬁne the state space (Sec.
4), the robot must discover the
state features and degrees of freedom attached to each object in its environment. This
information is assumed to be given in the traditional reinforcement learning and planning
settings. That is not the case in robotics, and in particular in learning for manipulation,
which involves interacting with objects that the robot’s designers do not have a priori access
to. Learned representations of object states can be transferred across the task family as
components of each task’s state space.
When learning a transition model of the environment (Sec. 5), the robot must
learn a model of how its actions aﬀect the task state, and the resulting background cost,
for use in planning. This is closely connected to learning to deﬁne the state space. If the
learned transition models and reward functions are object-centric, then they can be ported
across the task family, resulting in a natural means of object-centric generalization across
tasks.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Object and Environment 
Representations
Transition Models
Characterizing Skills by 
Preconditions and Eﬀects
Compositional and 
Hierarchical Task Structures
Skill Policies
Robot Learning 
for Manipulation
Object 
Representations
Passive and 
Interactive Perception
Feature Learning and 
Selection
Learning Object 
Properties
Model 
Representations
Uncertainty
Self-Supervision and 
Exploration
Transfer and Reuse
Action Spaces
Policy Structures
Reinforcement 
Learning
Imitation Learning
Skill Transfer
Safety and 
Performance 
Propositions and 
Predicates
Symbol Groundings
Skill Monitoring and 
Outcome Detection
Skill Synthesis
Form of Motor Skills
Segmentation
Skill Discovery
Learning Abstractions
Figure 3: Overview of the diﬀerent topics covered in this review sections.
When learning motor skills (Sec. 6), the robot attempts to learn a motor control
policy that directly achieves some goal, typically via reinforcement learning (Sutton and
Barto, 1998). Here, the goal ranges from learning task-speciﬁc solution policies, to policies
that can produce a solution to any task in the task family given the context vector, to useful
motor skills that constitute a component of the solution policy but are not themselves a
complete solution.
Given a learned motor skill, we may also learn to characterize that motor skill
(Sec. 7), where the robot learns a description of the circumstances under which it can be
successfully executed (often called preconditions, and corresponding to an option’s initiation
set Io), and a model of the resulting state change (often called an eﬀect).
Finally, learning compositional and hierarchical structure (Sec. 8) aims to learn
hierarchical knowledge that enables the robot to become more eﬀective at solving new
tasks in the family. Here, the goal is to learn component motor skills—completely speciﬁed
options—and models of their operation to construct more abstract representations of the
learning task.
4. Learning Object and Environment Representations
Modelling manipulation tasks and generalizing manipulation skills requires representations
of the robot’s environment and the objects that it is manipulating. These representations
serve as the basis for learning transition models, skill policies, and skill pre- and post-
conditions, as discussed in later sections.
This section explains how the object-based state and context spaces of manipulation
tasks can be deﬁned and learned. We will also explain how the robot can discover objects
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
and estimate their properties using passive and interactive perception. Since many of the
extracted object properties and features may be irrelevant to learning certain components of
manipulation tasks, we conclude the section by discussing how to select and learn relevant
features.
4.1 Object Representations
As discussed in Section 2, a robot’s physical environment has considerable structure that
it can exploit. In particular, the world can be divided into objects, each of which can be
described by a collection of features or properties. Examples include movable objects such
as mugs, tables, and doors, and stationary objects such as counters and walls. The robot
can create a modular representation by segmenting the environment into objects and then
estimating the values of their properties. This representation supports the reuse of skills by
allowing the robot to eﬃciently generalize between similar objects across diﬀerent tasks.
Object representations capture how objects vary both within tasks and across tasks of
the same family. Within-task variations are captured by the state space—those features that
a manipulation action can change; across-task variations are captured as part of the context
space—attributes that are ﬁxed in any speciﬁc task but aid generalization across pairs of
tasks. For example, when stacking assorted blocks, the shapes and sizes of the blocks are
ﬁxed for a given task and are thus part of the context. Diﬀerent stacking tasks may however
use diﬀerent sets of blocks, and thus the context changes across the tasks. Generalizing
manipulation skills usually implies adapting, implicitly or explicitly, to variations in both
context and state. For example, a versatile pick-and-place skill should generalize over the
shapes of diﬀerent objects (ﬁxed in any speciﬁc task) as well as their positions in the
environment (modiﬁable by actions during a task).
4.1.1 Types of Object Variations
Several types of within- and across-task object variations are common in the literature. Ob-
ject pose (Pastor et al., 2009; Levine and Koltun, 2013; Deisenroth et al., 2015) variations
are the most common, and must be included in the state space when they can be manipu-
lated (e.g., by a pick-and-place skill). However, in some cases, these can be ﬁxed within a
task but vary across the task family and thus belong in the context (Da Silva et al., 2014;
Kober et al., 2011; Jiang et al., 2012; Levine and Koltun, 2013) (e.g., the height of a surface
in a wiping task (Do et al., 2014). Object shape may vary within a task, via articulated
(Niekum et al., 2015a; Sturm et al., 2010; Katz et al., 2010; Mart´ın-Mart´ın et al., 2016;
Sturm et al., 2011), deformable (Schenck et al., 2017; Li et al., 2016; Schulman et al., 2013;
Schenck and Fox, 2018a; Li et al., 2018; Seita et al., 2018; Li et al., 2018), or divisible (Lenz
et al., 2015b; W¨orgotter et al., 2013; Yamaguchi and Atkeson, 2016b) objects. Rigid ob-
ject shapes may also vary across tasks (Burchﬁel and Konidaris, 2018; Brandl et al., 2014),
oﬀering both a challenge to and opportunity for generalization (Schenck and Fox, 2018a).
Similarly, objects may vary in material properties, which can have signiﬁcant eﬀects on
manipulation but typically only vary across-tasks (e.g., cutting objects of diﬀerent materi-
als (Lenz et al., 2015b)), though there is some work on altering the material properties of
manipulated objects (Chitta et al., 2011; Schenck and Stoytchev, 2012; Isola et al., 2015).
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Finally, objects may vary in their interactions or relative properties, including both
robot-object (Bekiroglu et al., 2013; Kopicki et al., 2016) and object-object (Stoytchev,
2005; Sturm et al., 2010; Kroemer et al., 2018; Jund et al., 2018) interactions. Objects may
interact with each other resulting on constraints between them (Jain and Kemp, 2013),
and manipulation may result in mode switches that add or remove constraints (Niekum
et al., 2015a; Baum et al., 2017; Kroemer and Peters, 2014; Baisero et al., 2015). Variance
across, rather than within, tasks is also possible—e.g., the properties of the joint connecting
a cabinet and its door will remain constant for a given cabinet, but diﬀerent cabinets can
have diﬀerent constraints (Sturm et al., 2010; Hausman et al., 2015; Niekum et al., 2015a;
Dang and Allen, 2010).
4.1.2 Object Representation Hierarchies
Object models can be represented hierarchically, with layers corresponding to point-, part-,
and object-level representations, each decreasing in detail and increasing in abstraction,
and aﬀording diﬀerent types of generalization. This representation hierarchy mirrors the
geometric structure of objects and their parts. Geometric properties and features capture
where the points, parts, and objects are, and non-geometric properties tend to capture the
corresponding what information deﬁning these elements. Representations at each level of
the hierarchy can capture general inherent properties as well as semantic or task-oriented
properties (Dang and Allen, 2012; Myers et al., 2015; Jang et al., 2017). In addition to
representing individual objects, the robot can also represent interactions between objects
at the diﬀerent layers of the hierarchy.
Point-level Representations: Point-level representations are the lowest level of the
hierarchy, and include point cloud, pixel, and voxel representations for capturing the partial
or complete shapes of objects in detail (Schenck et al., 2017; Bohg and Kragic, 2010; Klin-
gensmith et al., 2014; Florence et al., 2018; Choi et al., 2018). Point-level representations
provide the robot with the most ﬂexible representations for capturing important details of
objects and manipulation tasks.
Each element of these representations may be associated with additional features, such
as the color or material properties corresponding to this point. Segmentation methods can
be used to assign labels to individual points according to which part or object they belong
(Schenck and Fox, 2018a; Myers et al., 2015). Interactions may be modeled at this level
of the hierarchy as contact points (Kaul et al., 2016; Dang and Allen, 2012; Rosman and
Ramamoorthy, 2011; Kopicki et al., 2016; Vi˜na et al., 2013; Su et al., 2015; Veiga et al.,
2015; Piacenza et al., 2017).
Generalization across tasks can be accomplished by establishing correspondences be-
tween objects and environments at the point level. The robot may identify individual key
points of objects (e.g., the tip of a tool (Edsinger and Kemp, 2006)), or use non-rigid regis-
tration or geometry warping to determine correspondences of entire sets of points across task
instances (Schulman et al., 2013; Hillenbrand and Roa, 2012; St¨uckler and Behnke, 2014;
Rodriguez and Behnke, 2018; Amor et al., 2012). These correspondences can then be used
to directly map manipulation skills between tasks or to compute higher-level representations
(St¨uckler and Behnke, 2014).
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
Part-level Representations: Representations at the part level correspond to sets
of multiple contiguous points from the lower level of the hierarchy (Sung et al., 2017a;
Detry et al., 2013; Dang and Allen, 2010; Byravan and Fox, 2016), typically focusing on
parts associated with certain types of manipulations. For example, a mug can be seen as
having an opening for pouring, a bowl for containing, a handle for grasping, and a bottom
for placing (Fagg and Arbib, 1998). Each part can then be described by a set of features
describing aspects such as shape, pose, color, material, type, and surface properties. Robots
can use part-level features to represent interactions or relations between the parts of diﬀerent
objects, or to indicate the types of interactions and constraints imposed between the parts
due to the interaction (e.g., a peg must be smaller than the hole for an insertion task).
Deﬁning correspondences at the part level enables generalization across diﬀerent types of
objects (Tenorth et al., 2013; Sung et al., 2015; Detry et al., 2013). Many objects have similar
parts that aﬀord similar interactions, although the objects may be very diﬀerent as a whole.
For example, a coin and a screwdriver are distinct types of objects, but they both have short
thin metallic edge that can be used to turn a screw. Similarly, many objects have graspable
handles; identifying the handle correspondences thus allows for transfering grasping skills
(Detry et al., 2013; Kroemer et al., 2012). Part-based representations therefore allow the
robot to generalize between diﬀerent classes of objects without having to reason about
individual points of the object (Sung et al., 2015).
Object-level Representations: Object-level representations are important because
robots generally select objects, not individual features, to manipulate (Janner et al., 2019;
Deisenroth et al., 2015; Gao et al., 2016; Jang et al., 2018). Thus, robots must generalize
between the sets of features attached to each object. Useful object-level representations
group together object-speciﬁc properties such as an object’s pose, mass, overall shape, and
material properties (for uniform objects). Semantic object labels can be used to distinguish
diﬀerent types of objects and how they should be manipulated (Jang et al., 2017). Similar to
parts, object-level interaction features often deﬁne the relative poses, forces, and constraints
between objects in manipulation tasks, e.g., relative poses for stacking blocks (Fang et al.,
2016; Jain and Kemp, 2013; Ugur and Piater, 2015; Sundaralingam et al., 2019). The robot
may also deﬁne diﬀerent types of interactions at this level (e.g., object A is on or inside
object B) or relations between objects (e.g., relative sizes and weights) to capture sets of
interactions in a more abstract form (Schenck et al., 2012; Schenck and Fox, 2018a; Kulick
et al., 2013; Schenck and Stoytchev, 2012; Fichtl et al., 2014). Generalization across objects
typically requires establishing correspondences between distinct objects (Devin et al., 2018)
that support similar manipulations.
Robots may also need to represent groups of objects—rather than modeling individual
objects within the group, it is often more eﬃcient and robust to use features that represent
groups of objects as a whole entity. For example, clutter, or the background scene with
which the robot should avoid colliding, is often represented in a similar manner to a single
deformable or piece-wise rigid object. Identifying and reasoning about individual objects
may not be necessary, and may even add additional complexity to learning, causing learning
to generalize poorly or be less robust. Manipulating a speciﬁc object among a group may
require the robot to recognize it, or even actively singulate the object (Gupta et al., 2015;
Hermans et al., 2012).
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
4.2 Passive and Interactive Perception
As embodied agents capable of manipulating their surroundings, robots can use actions to
enhance their perception of the environment. Robot perception is therefore broadly divided
into passive and interactive perception, with the key diﬀerence being whether or not the
robot physically interacts with the environment.
The term passive perception refers to the process of perceiving the environment
without exploiting physical interactions with it, i.e., non-interactive perception (Isola et al.,
2015)—for example, recognizing and localizing objects in a scene based on a camera image
(Burchﬁel and Konidaris, 2018; Tremblay et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2019; Yamaguchi and
Atkeson, 2016a). Passive perception allows the robot to quickly acquire a large amount of
information from the environment with little eﬀort. Passive perception does not require the
environment or the sensor to be stationary; observing a human performing a manipulation
task is still passive, as the robot does not itself perform the interaction. Similarly, moving
a camera to a better vantage point is still a non-interactive form of perception, as the robot
does not apply force to, or otherwise alter, the state of the environment(Saran et al., 2017;
Kahn et al., 2015).
In interactive perception (Bohg et al., 2017), the robot physically interacts with its
surroundings to obtain a better estimate of the environment. For example, a robot may
push an object to better estimate its constraints or lift an object to estimate its weight
(Barrag´an et al., 2014; Hausman et al., 2015; Katz and Brock, 2011). Robots can use a
wide range of sensor modalities to observe the eﬀects of its interactions, including haptic,
tactile, vision, and audio (Lenz et al., 2015a; Chitta et al., 2011; H¨ogman et al., 2016;
Griﬃth et al., 2012; Thomason et al., 2016).
The need to perform actions means that interactive perception requires more time and
energy than passive perception. The beneﬁt of interactive perception is its ability to dis-
ambiguate between scenarios and observe otherwise latent properties (Tsikos and Bajcsy,
1991; Chitta et al., 2011; Gao et al., 2016), enabling the robot to reduce uncertainty. For
example, the robot may not know whether two objects are rigidly connected or simply in
contact; interactive perception allows it to test each hypothesis.
Diﬀerent actions will result in diﬀerent eﬀects and hence robots can learn about their
environment faster by selecting more informative actions (Barrag´an et al., 2014; Baum
et al., 2017; Dragiev et al., 2013; Otte et al., 2014; Kulick et al., 2015; Saran et al., 2017;
Kenney et al., 2009). For example, shaking a container will usually provide more infor-
mation regarding its contents than a pushing action would (Schenck and Stoytchev, 2012;
Sinapov et al., 2014; Schenck et al., 2014). Active learning approaches usually estimate the
uncertainty of one or more variables in the environment and then select actions based on
the resulting entropy, information gain, or mutual information (Otte et al., 2014; H¨ogman
et al., 2016; Hausman et al., 2015; van Hoof et al., 2014; Kulick et al., 2015).
The ability to test hypothesis means that interactive perception can also be used as
a supervisory signal for learning to estimate properties using passive perception (Griﬃth
et al., 2012; Pinto et al., 2016; van Hoof et al., 2014; Nguyen and Kemp, 2014; Wu et al.,
2016; Kraft et al., 2008; Pathak et al., 2018). As an example of interactive learning, a robot
may learn to predict the mass of objects from their appearance by ﬁrst using interactive
perception to determine the masses of a set of training objects. This form of self-supervised
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
learning allows the robot to gather information autonomously and is thus crucial for enabling
robots to operate in unfamiliar environments.
4.3 Learning About Objects and Their Properties
Having explained the diﬀerent types of object variations and types of perception, we now
discuss how the robot can learn about the objects around it from data.
4.3.1 Discovering Objects
A common ﬁrst step in learning is distinguishing the individual objects in the scene, which is
a segmentation problem, typically accomplished using passive perception (Kraft et al., 2008;
Alexe et al., 2012; Schwarz et al., 2018; Byravan and Fox, 2016; He et al., 2017). However,
objects may often be close together in the scene, presenting the robot with ambiguous
information about object identity. Here the robot can maintain a probabilistic belief over
whether or not diﬀerent parts belong to the same object (van Hoof et al., 2014; Kenney
et al., 2009; Hausman et al., 2012), and use interactive perception or viewpoint selection to
disambiguate the scene (Gualtieri and Platt, 2017; Hermans et al., 2012; van Hoof et al.,
2014; Hausman et al., 2012).
4.3.2 Discovering Degrees of Freedom
Once individual objects have been identiﬁed, the robot may need to identify their kinematic
degrees of freedom (Niekum et al., 2015a; Jain and Niekum, 2020; Hausman et al., 2012;
Katz et al., 2010; Baum et al., 2017; Sturm et al., 2010; Katz and Brock, 2011; Abbatematteo
et al., 2019). These constraints and articulated connections are fundamental to establishing
the objects’ state space for manipulation tasks, as well as for robust pose tracking (Desingh
et al., 2018; Schmidt et al., 2015). The diﬀerent types of joints are usually represented using
distinct articulation models, e.g., revolute or prismatic, with their own sets of parameters.
For example, a revolute joint model is speciﬁed by the position, direction, and limits of
its rotation axis (Sturm et al., 2010; Barrag´an et al., 2014; Niekum et al., 2015a; Sturm
et al., 2011). The robot must estimate these context parameters to accurately model the
degrees of freedom. Passive perception can be used to estimate the kinematic chains of
articulated objects, especially if the object is being moved by a person (Mart´ın-Mart´ın
et al., 2016; Niekum et al., 2015a; Pillai et al., 2014; Brookshire and Teller, 2016; Jain and
Niekum, 2020). Interactive perception is also well suited for estimating the articulation
model parameters and the resulting motion constraints (Sturm et al., 2010; Barrag´an et al.,
2014; Hausman et al., 2015). Given the high-dimensional parameter space of the articulation
models, active learning approaches are often used to select informative actions for quickly
determining the model parameters (Hausman et al., 2015; Baum et al., 2017), or transfer
learning methods may be used (Abbatematteo et al., 2019).
4.3.3 Estimating Object Properties
Once the robot has identiﬁed an object in the environment, the next step is to estimate
the object’s properties. Since some properties are only applicable to some classes of objects
(Diuk et al., 2008; Bullard et al., 2018; Dragiev et al., 2013; Bhattacharjee et al., 2015;
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Schenck and Stoytchev, 2012; Wu et al., 2016; Chitta et al., 2011) the robot must ﬁrst
recognize the object class. For manipulation tasks, object classes are often derived from the
actions and interactions that they aﬀord the robot, e.g., container, graspable, and stackable,
such that the interaction-relevant properties can be easily associated with the objects.
Here the robot may use passive and interactive perception to estimate object property
values (Gao et al., 2016; Isola et al., 2015; Li et al., 2014; Varley et al., 2019). In addition
to object recognition, passive perception is often used to estimate the position, shape, and
material properties (Li et al., 2018; Bhattacharjee et al., 2015; Wu et al., 2016; Tremblay
et al., 2018; Garcia Cifuentes et al., 2017; Schmidt et al., 2015; Burchﬁel and Konidaris,
2017; Issac et al., 2016; Burchﬁel and Konidaris, 2018; W¨uthrich et al., 2015; Yamaguchi
and Atkeson, 2016a).
However, additional interactive perception can often be used to
acquire more accurate estimates of these properties (Chitta et al., 2010; Bj¨orkman et al.,
2013; Dragiev et al., 2013; Javdani et al., 2013; Petrovskaya and Khatib, 2011; Koval et al.,
2017). Material and interaction properties are often diﬃcult to estimate accurately using
only passive perception. The estimates can be signiﬁcantly improved by interacting with
the objects and using tactile sensing (Sinapov et al., 2011a,b, 2014; Sung et al., 2017b; Gao
et al., 2016; Lenz et al., 2015a; Hsiao et al., 2010; Varley et al., 2019). Exploratory actions
can also be used to estimate the dynamic properties of objects, e.g., the center of mass, or
the contents of containers (Guler et al., 2014; Schenck et al., 2014; Chitta et al., 2011).
4.4 Feature Learning and Selection
Even though an environment may contain a lot of objects and sensory stimuli, only a few
object properties or sensory signals will usually be relevant for a given task. For example,
when opening a bottle, the size of the cap is a relevant feature, but the color of the chair is
irrelevant. Using a suitable set of relevant features simpliﬁes the skill and model learning
problems. It also increases robustness and generalization to new situations. If the set of
object properties is suﬃciently rich, then the robot may only need to select a suitable set of
these as features for learning (Devin et al., 2018; Kroemer and Sukhatme, 2017; Montesano
et al., 2008; Song et al., 2011; Stramandinoli et al., 2018). In many cases, the robot will
however need to learn a set of features for the given task.
Unsupervised feature learning methods extract features from unlabeled training data.
Dimensionality reduction methods may be used to capture correlations in data and dis-
card noisy components of signals.
For manipulation domains, dimensionality reduction
approaches can be used to learn compact representations of complex objects or variations
within classes of objects (Burchﬁel and Konidaris, 2017; Bergstr¨om et al., 2012). Dimension-
aly reduction methods can also be used to reduce the robot’s action space of grasps to better
ﬁt common object shapes (Ciocarlie et al., 2007). Clustering methods are used to cluster
together similar data samples. For manipulations, clustering method may for example be
used to cluster together distinct types of objects or continuous eﬀects of manipulations
(Ugur and Piater, 2015).
Supervised approaches learn features as part of the overall model or skill learning pro-
cess. Decision trees and neural networks are often used to learn features in a supervised
setting. Deep learning in particular has become ubiquitous for feature learning in robotics.
Diﬀerent network structures and layers, such as auto-encoders, spatial soft max layers,
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
convolutions, and segmentation masks, can be used to incorporate architectural priors for
learning useful features. For example, segmentation masks can be used to capture the co-
movement of nearby points in an image to capture points of objects or parts moving together
(Byravan and Fox, 2016; Finn and Levine, 2017). Deep neural network models can be used
to represent state spaces for manipulation tasks with high dimensional observation spaces.
Representations of manipulation environments can be learned in a task-oriented manner
to facilitate subsequent planning and control (Kurutach et al., 2018; Srinivas et al., 2018).
Neural networks are also highly eﬀective at combining data from multiple sensor modalities
or information sources. For manipulation tasks, robots often use this approach to merge
information between passive modalities (e.g., vision) and more interactive modalities (e.g.,
touch and haptics), or to incorporate additional task information (e.g., instructions) (Gao
et al., 2016; Lee et al., 2019; Sung et al., 2017a).
5. Learning Transition Models
The goal of manipulation tasks is to alter the states of objects in the robot’s environment.
Learning transition models that capture the changes in state as a result of the robot’s
actions is therefore an important component of manipulation learning.
5.1 Representing and Learning Transition Models
Learning a transition model requires a suitable representation.
The general form of a
transition model for a family of MDPs is either a deterministic function T : S × A →S or
a stochastic distribution T : S × A × S →R over the next states given the current state
and action. The transition models can also depend upon the context vector τ in order to
explicitly generalize between contexts. A transition model is often employed iteratively to
perform multi-step predictions.
Continuous Models: In manipulation tasks, robots are generally operating in con-
tinuous state and action spaces, e.g., the state is given by the continuous poses of objects
and the actions are given by desired joint positions or torques. Robots therefore often learn
low-level transition models for predicting the next state as a set of continuous values, even
when the set of actions is discrete (Scholz and Stilman, 2010). Regression methods, such as
neural networks, Gaussian processes, and (weighted) linear regressions, are commonly used
for learning transition models (Schenck et al., 2017; Levine and Koltun, 2013; Deisenroth
and Rasmussen, 2011; Atkeson et al., 1997a).
The simplest models, such as linear regression models, can be learned from small
amounts of data (Stilman et al., 2008), but often underﬁt the inherent nonlinearities of
most manipulation tasks. Hence, the generalization performance of these models is limited.
Instead, time-dependent linear models are often used to learn local models for speciﬁc re-
gions of the state space (Kumar et al., 2016), e.g., around the trajectory of a skill being
learned. These models may be suﬃcient while maintaining low data requirements, and can
be combined with prior models that capture more global information about the task. Gaus-
sian mixture models and neural networks have both been used to learn such informative
priors (Fu et al., 2016).
Nonparametric models, including Gaussian processes and locally weighted regression,
can ﬂexibly learn detailed transition models (Deisenroth et al., 2015; Kopicki et al., 2017).
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
The generalization performance of these types of models depends heavily on their hyperpa-
rameters and is often fairly limited. However, local models can be learned from relatively
small amounts of data. For example, an accurate model for planar pushing of a block may
be learned from less than a hundred samples (Bauza and Rodriguez, 2017).
More complex hierarchical models, such as neural networks and decision trees, allow the
robot to learn task-speciﬁc features that provide better generalization (Lenz et al., 2015a;
Schenck et al., 2017; Fu et al., 2016; Janner et al., 2019; Sanchez-Gonzalez et al., 2018;
Finn and Levine, 2017; Kurutach et al., 2018; Srinivas et al., 2018; Ye et al., 2018). For
example, convolutional encoder-decoder networks can be used to learn models for predicting
the transitions of individual points in the scene based on the selected actions (Byravan and
Fox, 2016; Finn and Levine, 2017). However, unless the models are pre-trained, learning
intermediate features signiﬁcantly increases the amount of data required for training these
models.
Broadly speaking, the best representation for learning a continuous transition
model often depends on the amount of training data available and the model expressiveness
required by the task.
Predictive state representations (PSRs) allow the robot to model the distributions over
future observations based on the history of past observations (Littman and Sutton, 2002;
Singh et al., 2004; Boots et al., 2013; Stork et al., 2015). These models thus capture latent
state information, as part of a POMDP formulation, without explicitly modeling or inferring
the latent state. The robot can thus work directly with the observed variables.
More advanced parametric models provide additional structure, up to including entire
physics engines (Wu et al., 2015; Scholz et al., 2014; Wu et al., 2016; Li et al., 2015). These
engines provide a signiﬁcant amount of prior structure and information, which improves
generalization and data eﬃciency. However, even given the engine, it is diﬃcult for a robot
to map a real world scenario into a simulation environment. The simulation may also still
fail to accurately capture certain interactions due to their lack of ﬂexibility. Physics engines
are therefore sometimes used to provide a prior or to initialize a more ﬂexible representation
by combining analytical models with ﬂexible data-driven models (Ajay et al., 2018).
Discrete Models: Discrete transition models are used to learn transitions for tasks
with discrete state and action spaces, typically capturing high-level tasks. For example,
a robot may learn a discrete transition model for ﬂipping a pancake, in which the tran-
sition probabilities indicate the probability of the pancake being ﬂipped, dropped, or not
transitioning. The model can then be used to predict the outcome of attempting multiple
ﬂips. Discrete models can also capture low-level transitions where the state space has been
discretized. This results in the continuous states corresponding to a single discrete state
being considered as identical. It also removes the smoothness assumption between states,
such that state transition information is not shared between discrete states. As a result, a
very ﬁne-grained discretization will lead to poor generalization and a coarse discretization
may not capture enough detailed transition information to perform the task. A suitable
discretization should therefore cluster together states that will result in similar transitions
given the same actions (Bergstr¨om et al., 2012). Adaptive or learned discretizations are a
form of feature learning (Guan et al., 2018).
The most basic representations for discrete models are tabular models or ﬁnite state
machines. Discrete models treat each state as atomic, with a transition distribution inde-
pendent of all other states. This approach however severely hampers generalization and
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
transfer.
More structured models use collections of symbols to represent discrete state
spaces. Proposition-based models deﬁne a set of propositions (Konidaris et al., 2018), e.g.,
Obj1Grasped and Obj2Clear, which are either true or false and thus deﬁne the state. A
set of N propositions thus deﬁnes a set of 2N states. The factorization provided by the
propositions results in a more compact representation of the state space, and also allows
transition information to be shared between these states. In particular, symbolic models
are often used to express compact (and sometimes stochastic) action models known as op-
erators. Each such operator has a a precondition that must be true for the action to be
executable, e.g., WaterReservoirFull=True and CoffeeJugFull=False for a coﬀee mak-
ing action. The eﬀects of the action are then given by lists of propositions that become true
(e.g., CoffeeJugFull) and that become false (e.g., WaterReservoirFull), with all other
propositions being unchanged by the transition. As the preconditions and eﬀects only refer
to a small number of propositions, the operator generalizes across the values of all other
propositions that are not mentioned.
These models may be generalized to relational or ﬁrst-order models (Lang et al., 2012),
which support extremely compact action models and enable generalization across objects.
This approach allows predicate-based models (e.g., Full(CoffeeJug) for a full jug of coﬀee
and Full(WaterReservoir) for a full water reservoir) to be used for families of tasks with
diﬀerent numbers of objects and states. This extended generalization can unfortunately also
have some unintended eﬀects if distinct situations are treated as the same. For example,
a dishwasher loading action would treat a paper plate the same as a ceramic plate unless
a suitable predicate, e.g.
IsCeramic(Plate), were included to avoid this type of over
generalization.
Hybrid Models: Hybrid models combine elements of discrete and continuous models,
often resulting from the hierarchical structure of manipulation skills and subtasks. The
discrete components of the state are often used to capture high-level task information while
the continuous components capture low-level state information.
Robots will often learn continuous models for speciﬁc subtasks. For example, a robot
may learn separate models for opening a door, moving its body through free space, and
stacking newspapers. These models can then be used to predict the eﬀects of actions within
each skill. In turn, these models can then become a part of the robot’s overall world model
to predict the eﬀects of sequences of skills. This approach allows the robot to exploit the
modularity of the distinct subtasks for the discrete high-level transition model. Many works
on learning continuous models for individual skills or subtasks can thus be seen as learning
part of a larger hybrid model.
One common use of hybrid models is to represent modes in manipulation tasks (Hauser,
2018; Sim´eon et al., 2004; Kroemer et al., 2015; Lee et al., 2017; Choudhury et al., 2017; Zhou
et al., 2018). In these cases, the dynamics are piece-wise continuous with jumps between
the modes. These jumps are often deﬁned by guard sets wherein the state transitions to a
certain mode if the continuous state enters the guard set. In manipulation tasks, the jumps
between modes typically result from contacts being made or broken between objects. The
mode switches thus capture the changing dynamics and constraints caused by the changing
contacts. Planning approaches for manipulation domains often explicitly take this multi-
modal structure into account for planning (Toussaint et al., 2018; Jain and Niekum, 2018).
Learning a hybrid model entails learning both the dynamics within each mode and the
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
conditions for switching between modes.
The dynamics within a mode can be learned
using standard continuous model approaches. The guard regions can be modeled as explicit
sets of states or using classiﬁers. More ﬂexible models, such as nonparametric and neural
network models, may also be able to implicitly capture hybrid dynamics of manipulation
tasks (Finn and Levine, 2017). Exploiting the modularity of they hybrid system is however
more diﬃcult when using an implicit model of the mode structure.
5.2 Uncertainty in Transition Models
State transitions are often represented using probabilistic models that allow the robot to
represent multiple potential outcomes. For example, a robot may choose to move to a trash
can and drop an object inside because the resulting state distribution has a lower variance
than attempting to throw the object into the trash.
When working with probabilistic
models, it is important to distinguish between two sources of uncertainty: aleatoric and
epistemic uncertainty.
Aleatoric uncertainty: A stochastic process exhibits a randomness in its state tran-
sitions. For example, when throwing a block into the air, the side on which the block will
land is random. Similarly, due to slight variations in the execution and surface properties,
the exact location of an object being placed on a table may follow a Gaussian distribu-
tion. Attempting to open a door may only result in the door opening 98% of the time and
remaining closed the other 2%.
Stochasticity resulting in aleatoric uncertainty is common in manipulation tasks, for
both discrete and continuous state spaces (Kopicki et al., 2017; Lang et al., 2012). Proba-
bilistic models are thus used to capture the process noise and approximate the distributions
over next states (Babaeizadeh et al., 2018; Kroemer et al., 2015).
Epistemic uncertainty: In addition to the inherent stochasticity of manipulation, the
outcome of an action may be uncertain due to the robot’s limited knowledge of the process.
For example, consider the task of placing a closed container into a bowl of water. Whether
the container will ﬂoat or sink is deterministic given its mass and volume. However, the
robot’s prediction over the two outcomes may still be uncertain if the robot does not know
the mass of the container or because it lacks suﬃcient training samples to accurately predict
the mass threshold at which the container will sink. The probabilistic prediction is thus
the result of epistemic uncertainty, or uncertainty over the model parameters, rather than
aleatoric uncertainty from inherent stochasticity. Unlike aleatoric uncertainty, epistemic
uncertainty can be reduced given additional information, e.g., using interactive perception
to better estimate the mass of the container or acquiring additional training samples for
estimating the threshold for the model.
Bayesian approaches explicitly capture epistemic uncertainty in their predictions by
representing the probability distributions over diﬀerent potential models (Deisenroth et al.,
2015; Scholz et al., 2014). They also incorporate explicit prior beliefs over these model
distributions. By contrast, point estimates, such as maximum likelihood or maximum a
posteriori MAP estimates, assume a single model given the current data and use this model
to predict the next state.
Linear Bayesian models are often too simple to capture the
complexity of manipulation tasks. Kernel-based Gaussian processes have therefore become
one of the most popular Bayesian approaches for learning transition models (Deisenroth
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
et al., 2015; H¨ogman et al., 2016). Gaussian processes, as well as linear Bayesian regression,
both have explicit parameters modeling the stochasticity of the system being represented.
The model uncertainty can also be used to guide exploration for learning an accurate model
from fewer samples (Wang et al., 2018).
5.3 Self-supervision and Exploration for Learning Transitions
Transition models are usually learned in a self-supervised manner. Given the current state,
the robot performs an action and observes the resulting eﬀect on the state. The robot can
thus acquire state, action, and next state tuples for training the model. To generalize more
broadly, the robot will also need to estimate the context parameters for each task and then
incorporate these into the model as well.
The robot can adopt diﬀerent exploration strategies for acquiring samples. Random
sampling is often used to learn general models and acquire a diverse set of samples. A grid
approach may be used to ensure that the action samples are suﬃciently spread out, but
these approaches generally assume that the state can be reset between actions (Yu et al.,
2016). Active sampling approaches can be used to select action samples that are the most
informative (Wang et al., 2018). If the model is being used to learn and improve a speciﬁc
skill, the robot may collect samples within the vicinity of the skill using a small amount
of random noise (see model-based skill learning in the next section). Another increasingly
popular approach to exploring an environment is to use intrinsic motivation (Chentanez
et al., 2005; Pathak et al., 2019). In this case, the robot actively attempts to discover novel
scenarios where its model currently performs poorly or that result in salient events.
5.4 Transferring and Reusing Transition Models
Transition models are not inherently linked to a speciﬁc task, and can therefore often be
transferred and reused between diﬀerent manipulation tasks and even task families. For
example, a model learned for pushing an object may be used as the basis for learning push
grasps of objects. In order to directly reuse a model, the learned model and the new task
must have the same state, action, and context spaces, or a mapping between the spaces may
be necessary (Taylor et al., 2007). Given compatible spaces, the ability to transfer or reuse
models depends on the overlap between data distributions for training the old and new task
models. This issue is known as covariate shift (input varies) and dataset shift (input and
output varies). If the previous model was trained on data distinct from the needs of the
new task, then the beneﬁt of using the previous model will be limited and may even be
detrimental. Assuming a suﬃciently rich model, the robot can acquire additional data from
the new task and use it to update the model for the new region. In this manner, the robot’s
learned model may become more applicable to other tasks in the future. Data can also be
shared across models when learning skills in parallel.
6. Learning Skill Policies
All of the robot learning problems discussed thus far are ultimately in service of helping the
robot learn a policy that accomplishes some objective. Thus, the ﬁnal learning goal for the
robot is to acquire a behavior, or skill controller, that will perform a desired manipulation
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
task. A common representation for skill controllers is a stochastic policy that maps state-
action pairs to probabilities (or probability densities in the continuous case). This section
discusses the spectrum of diﬀerent policy parameterizations that can be chosen, algorithms
for learning skill policies from experience and demonstrations, methods for transferring
knowledge across skills and tasks, and approaches that can provide safety and performance
guarantees during learning.
6.1 Types of Action Spaces
The choice of action spaces is an important part of designing a manipulation policy. The
robot ultimately needs to send a control signal to its actuators to perform actions in the
physical world. These signals may, for example, deﬁne the desired pressure for a hydraulic
or pneumatic actuator (Bischoﬀet al., 2014; Gupta et al., 2016), the heating for a shape
memory alloy actuator (AbuZaiter et al., 2016; Zimmer et al., 2019), the tendon activation
for a cable-driven robot (Schlagenhauf et al., 2018; Andrychowicz et al., 2020), or the torque
for an electric motor (Nguyen-Tuong and Peters, 2011; Levine et al., 2015). Robots that are
diﬃcult to model, such as soft robots and robots with complex dynamics, may often beneﬁt
from learning policies that directly output these control signals. However, the outputs of
policies often do not work directly at the level of actuator signals.
In practice, an additional controller is often placed between the policy and the actuator
(Gullapalli et al., 1994).
Using an additional controller allows the robot to leverage a
large body of prior work on control for robotics (Spong et al., 2005). Example controllers
include simple linear PID controllers as well as more complex model-based admittance and
impedance controllers. The policy’s actions then deﬁne the desired values for the controller.
The action space of the policy often deﬁnes the desired positions, velocities, or accelerations
for movements or desired forces and torques for interactions.
Both desired position and force information can be deﬁned in the joint space or a
Cartesian task space for the end eﬀector.
For manipulation tasks, it is often easier to
generalize interactions with objects across the robot’s workspace using a Cartesian action
space (Mason, 1981; Ballard, 1984). For example, with a Cartesian action space, applying
an upward force on a grasped object would be the same action anywhere in the robot’s
workspace. The controller is then responsible for mapping these desired signals into the
joint space for actuation. For a joint-space action policy, the robot would need to learn
diﬀerent joint torques depending on the arm’s current conﬁguration.
Although the Cartesian actions could be deﬁned in a global or robot-centric coordinate
frame, additional generalization can often be achieved by using task frames associated to
individual objects or salient features of the environment (Ballard, 1984). These task frames
may be predeﬁned, selected, or learned. Using a given object-relative task frame allows the
policy learning to focus on how to perform the task rather than where to perform it.
In addition to determining the desired values for inputs to the controller, the policy may
also output additional values for adapting the controller. In particular, a policy may deﬁne
diﬀerent controller gains as part of its action space (Buchli et al., 2011; Ren et al., 2018).
In this manner, the policy can make a robot more compliant or stiﬀer at diﬀerent points
during the task execution. Otherwise the gains are usually predeﬁned and ﬁxed.
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
The inclusion of a controller also allows the robot to use a policy that operates at a
lower frequency than the controller. While the low-level controllers may operate at 100s or
1000s of Hertz, the policies can operate at lower frequencies. For policies operating at lower
frequencies, an additional interpolation step may be used to guide the controller between
the desired values.
6.2 The Spectrum of Policy Structure
In robotic manipulation, speciﬁc parameterizations are often used that restrict the repre-
sentational power of the policy; if these restrictions respect the underlying structure of the
task, generalization and data eﬃciency are often improved without signiﬁcantly impacting
asymptotic performance. Thus, the choice of policy representation is a critical design de-
cision for any robot learning algorithm, as it dictates the class of behaviors that can be
expressed and encodes strong priors for how generalization ought to occur. This results in
a spectrum of policy structures, ranging from highly general (but often sample-ineﬃcient)
to highly constrained (but potentially more sample-eﬃcient) representations.
Nonparametric Policies: The most expressive policy representations are nonpara-
metric, growing as needed with task or data complexity. This category includes nearest
neighbor-based approaches, Gaussian processes (Rasmussen, 2004), Riemannian Motion
Policies (Ratliﬀet al., 2018), and locally-weighted regression (Atkeson et al., 1997b; Vi-
jayakumar and Schaal, 2000). These representations are the most ﬂexible and data-driven,
but they also typically require large amounts of data to produce high-quality generaliza-
tion. This representational paradigm has been successful in manipulation tasks in which
very little task knowledge is given a priori to the robot, such as an 88-dimensional octopus
arm control problem in which Gaussian Process Temporal Diﬀerence learning is used (Engel
et al., 2006), and 50-dimensional control of a SARCOS arm via locally weighted projection
regression (Vijayakumar and Schaal, 2000).
Generic Fixed-size Parametric Policies: More commonly, ﬁxed-complexity para-
metric policy representations are used, making stronger assumptions about the complexity
and structure of the policy. Common parametric policy representations include look-up
tables (Sutton and Barto, 1998), linear combinations of basis functions such as tile coding,
the Fourier basis (Konidaris et al., 2011b, 2012), neural networks (Levine et al., 2016),
decision tree classiﬁers (Quinlan, 1986; Huang and Liang, 2002), and support vector ma-
chines (Cortes and Vapnik, 1995; Ross et al., 2011). While any given choice of parameters
has a ﬁxed representational power, a great deal of engineering ﬂexibility remains in choos-
ing the number and deﬁnition of those parameters. Design decisions must also be made
about which features will interact and which will contribute independently to the policy
(e.g. the fully-coupled vs. independent Fourier basis (Konidaris et al., 2011b)), or more
general decisions regarding inductive bias and representational power (e.g. neural network
architectures).
The choice of a ﬁxed parameterization makes particular assumptions about how gener-
alization ought to occur across state-action pairs. For example, tabular representations can
represent any (discrete) function, but do not intrinsically support generalization to unseen
states and actions. By contrast, policies comprised of linear combinations of basis functions
(for both discrete and continuous state spaces) more naturally generalize to novel situations
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
since each parameter (a basis weight) aﬀects the policy globally, assuming basis functions
with global support. However, the success of such generalization relies on the correctness
of assumptions about the smoothness and “shape” of the policy, as encoded by the choice
of basis functions. Some parametric forms make more speciﬁc structural assumptions—for
example, by construction, convolutional neural networks (Krizhevsky et al., 2012; Levine
et al., 2016; Agrawal et al., 2016; Mahler et al., 2017) support a degree of invariance to
spatial translation of inputs.
Restricted Parametric Policies: The expressiveness of a policy is only limited by the
underlying policy representation; however, sample complexity, overﬁtting, and generaliza-
tion often get worse as representational power increases. This has lead to the development
of specialized policy representations that have limited representational power, but exploit
the structure of robotics problems to learn and generalize from less data. However, the
quality of the generalization in such methods is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the
underlying assumptions that are made. Such methods lie on a spectrum of how restrictive
they are; for example, structured neural network architectures (e.g. value iteration net-
works (Tamar et al., 2016), schema networks (Kansky et al., 2017), etc.) impose somewhat
moderate restrictions, whereas other methods impose much stronger restrictions, such as
forcing the policy to obey a particular set of parameterized diﬀerential equations (Schaal,
2006). However, it is not always clear how to choose the right point along the spectrum
from a completely general to highly-speciﬁc policy class. The following are some common
examples of restricted policy classes.
Linear Quadratic Regulators (LQR) (Zhou et al., 1996) are commonly used to stabilize
around (possibly learned) trajectories or points, in which the cost is assumed to be quadratic
in state and the dynamics are linear in state. These restrictions are relaxed in Iterative LQR
(Fu et al., 2016) and Diﬀerential Dynamic Programming (Tassa et al., 2014; Yamaguchi and
Atkeson, 2015), in which nonlinear dynamics and nonquadratic costs can be approximated
as locally linear and locally quadratic, respectively. LQR-based controllers have also been
chained together as LQR-trees, allowing coverage of a larger, more complex space (Tedrake
et al., 2010).
LQR-like methods also assume that the state is fully observable; Linear
Quadratic Gaussian (LQG) control methods further generalize LQR by using a Kalman
ﬁlter for state estimation, in conjunction with an LQR controller (Levine et al., 2015; Platt
et al., 2010). LQR/LQG controllers are optimal when the linear-quadratic assumptions
are met, but require full knowledge of the dynamics and cost function, as well as a known
trajectory around which to stabilize. Thus, generalization in this case simply translates to
being able to stabilize around this known trajectory optimally from anywhere in the state
space.
Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs) support the learning of simple, generalizable
policies from a small number of demonstrations, which can be further improved via rein-
forcement learning (Schaal, 2006; Pastor et al., 2009). DMPs leverage the fact that many
robotic movements can be decomposed into two primary parts—a goal conﬁguration in
some reference frame and a “shape” of the motion. For example, screwing in a screw re-
quires a turning motion to get to the desired ﬁnal conﬁguration with respect to the hole.
DMPs use a set of diﬀerential equations to implement a spring-mass-damper that provably
drives the system to an adjustable goal from any starting location, while also including the
inﬂuence of a nonlinear function that preserves the desired shape of the movement. DMP
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
controllers can be learned from very little data, but typically only generalize well in cases
in which a good solution policy broadly can be described by a single prototypical motion
shape primitive.
Whereas DMPs generate deterministic policies, other approaches treat the problem
probabilistically, allowing stochastic policies to be learned. ProMPs are a straightforward
probabilistic variant of DMPs that can produce distributions of trajectories (Paraschos
et al., 2013). Gaussian Mixture Regression (GMR) (Calinon et al., 2007) models the likeli-
hood of states over time as a mixture of Gaussians, allowing for a multimodal distribution
of trajectories that can encode multiple ways of performing a task, as well as the acceptable
variance in diﬀerent parts of the task.
Goal-based Policies: At the far end of the spectrum, the most restrictive policy
representations are primarily parameterized by a goal conﬁguration. Given that the goal
conﬁguration is the primary parameter, these methods are typically either ﬁxed strategies
(such as splining to a goal point (Su et al., 2016), or between keyframes (Akgun et al.,
2012)) or have a very small number of adjustable parameters, such as a PID controller or
motion planner.
6.3 Reinforcement Learning
For any given policy representation, reinforcement learning (RL) (Sutton and Barto, 1998)
can be used to learn policy parameters for skill controllers.
In robotics domains, tasks
addressed with RL are usually episodic, with a ﬁxed number of time steps or a set of
terminal states that end the episode (e.g. reaching a particular object conﬁguration), but
occasionally may be continuing tasks with inﬁnite horizons (e.g. placing a continual stream
of objects into bins as fast as possible).
There are many challenges in applying RL to robotics. Due to the time it takes to
collect data on physical robots, the tradeoﬀbetween exploration and exploitation becomes
signiﬁcantly more important, compared to problems for which fast, accurate simulators
exist. Furthermore, few problems in robotics can be strictly characterized as MDPs, but
instead exhibit partial observability (Platt et al., 2011) and nonstationarity (Padakandla
et al., 2019) (though it often remains practical to cast and solve these problems as MDPs,
nonetheless). Since many tasks in robotics are multi-objective (e.g. pick up the mug, use
as little energy as possible, and don’t collide with anything), it can be diﬃcult to deﬁne
appropriate reward functions that elicit the desired behavior (Hadﬁeld-Menell et al., 2016).
Due to the episodic nature of most robotics tasks, rewards tend to be sparse and diﬃcult to
learn from. Robotics problems also often have high-dimensional continuous state features,
as well as multi-dimensional continuous actions, making policy learning challenging.
Here, we categorize RL algorithms using three primary criteria: (1) model-based or
model-free, (2) whether or not they compute a value function, and in what manner they
use it, and (3) on-policy or oﬀ-policy.
Model-Based RL: Accurate models of transition dynamics are rarely available a priori
and it is often diﬃcult to learn transition models from data. Nonetheless, there have been
notable model-based successes in robotic manipulation in which an approximate model is
learned from data (Deisenroth and Rasmussen, 2011; Levine et al., 2015; Lenz et al., 2015a;
Kumar et al., 2016; Finn and Levine, 2017; Schenck and Fox, 2018b). In these examples, the
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
model is typically used to guide exploration and policy search, leading to greatly improved
data eﬃciency. More generally, the primary beneﬁts of model-based RL in robotics are that
(1) in some domains, an approximate model is simpler to learn than the optimal policy
(since supervised learning is generally easier than RL) (2) models allow for re-planning /
re-learning on-the-ﬂy if the task changes, and (3) models allow for certain types of data
collection that are diﬃcult or impossible in the real world (such as resetting the world to an
exact state and trying diﬀerent actions to observe their outcome). The primary disadvantage
of model-based methods, aside from the diﬃculty of obtaining or learning models, is that
incorrect models typically add bias into learning. However, some methods mitigate this by
directly reasoning about uncertainty (Deisenroth and Rasmussen, 2011), whereas methods
such as doubly robust oﬀ-policy evaluation (Jiang and Li, 2016) use a model as a control
variate for variance reduction, sidestepping the bias issue. More details on model learning
can be found in Section 5.
Model-Free RL: Model-free methods learn policies directly from experiences of the
robot, without building or having access to a model. When the dynamics of the environ-
ment are complex, as they often are in contact-rich manipulation tasks, it can be signiﬁcantly
easier to learn a good policy than a model with similar performance. Model-free methods
can learn how to implicitly take advantage of complex dynamics without actually modeling
them—–for example, ﬁnding a motion that can pour water successfully without under-
standing ﬂuid dynamics. The downside of the model-free approaches is that they cannot
easily adapt to new goals without additional experience in the world, unlike model-based
approaches. Furthermore, they typically require a large (sometimes prohibitive) amount of
experience to learn. For this reason, some recent approaches have sought to combine the
beneﬁts of model-based and model-free methods (Gu et al., 2016; Chebotar et al., 2017;
Pong et al., 2018; Feinberg et al., 2018; Englert and Toussaint, 2016).
Value Function Methods: These methods aim to learn the value of states (or more
commonly, state-action pairs)—the expected return when following a particular policy,
starting from that state(-action pair). Value functions methods are known to be low vari-
ance, highly sample eﬃcient, and in discrete domains (or continuous domains with linear
function approximation), many such methods can be proven to converge to globally optimal
solutions. However, value function methods are typically brittle in the face of noise or poor
or underpowered state features, and do not scale well to high-dimensional state spaces, all of
which are common in robot manipulation tasks. Furthermore, they are not compatible with
continuous actions, severely limiting their application to robotics, except where discretiza-
tion is acceptable. Actions are often discretized at higher levels of abstraction when they
represent the execution of entire skills, rather than primitive actions (Kroemer et al., 2015).
Finally, it is diﬃcult to build in useful structure and task knowledge when using value func-
tion methods, since the policy is represented implicitly. Nonetheless, value function-based
methods such as Deep Q-Networks (Mnih et al., 2015) and extensions thereof have been
applied successfully to robotics tasks (Zhang et al., 2015; Kalashnikov et al., 2018).
Policy Search Methods: Policy search methods parameterize a policy directly and
search for parameters that perform well, rather than deriving a policy implicitly from a value
function. Policy search methods have become popular in robotics, as they are robust to noise
and poor features and naturally handle continuous actions, (the direct parameterization of
the policy eliminates the need to perform a maximization over values of actions). They also
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
often scale well to high-dimensional state spaces since the diﬃculty of policy search is more
directly related to the complexity of a good (or optimal) policy, rather than the size of the
underlying state space.
Pure policy search approaches eschew learning a value function entirely.
These are
sometimes referred to as “actor-only” methods, since there is a direct parameterization of
the policy, rather than a “critic” value function. Actor-only approaches include the gradient-
based method REINFORCE (Williams, 1992), for use when the policy is diﬀerentiable with
respect to its parameters. However, REINFORCE tends to suﬀer from high variance due
to noisy sample-based estimates of the policy gradient (though a variance-reducing baseline
can be used to partially mitigate this) and is only locally optimal. Actor-only policy search
also includes gradient-free optimization methods (De Boer et al., 2005; Mannor et al., 2003;
Hansen and Ostermeier, 2001; Davis, 1991; Theodorou et al., 2010), which are usable even
when the policy is non-diﬀerentiable, and in some cases (e.g. genetic algorithms) are globally
optimal, given suﬃcient search time. Unsurprisingly, these advantages often come at the
cost of reduced sample eﬃciency compared to gradient-based methods.
In contrast to actor-only approaches, actor-critic policy search methods (Sutton et al.,
2000; Peters and Schaal, 2008; Peters et al., 2010; Lillicrap et al., 2015; Mnih et al., 2016;
Schulman et al., 2015, 2017; Wang et al., 2017; Wu et al., 2017; Haarnoja et al., 2018) use
both a value function (the critic) and a directly parameterized policy (the actor), which
often share parameters. These methods typically have most of the advantages of actor-only
methods (the ability to handle continuous actions, robustness to noise, scaling, etc), but use
a bootstrapped value function to reduce the variance of gradient estimates, thereby gaining
some of the sample eﬃciency and low-variance of critic-only methods. The unique advan-
tages of actor-critic methods have made them state of the art in many robotic manipulation
tasks, as well as in the larger ﬁeld of deep reinforcement learning.
On-Policy vs Oﬀ-Policy Learning: When using RL to improve a policy, on-policy
algorithms are restricted to using data collected from executions of that speciﬁc policy (e.g.
SARSA (Sutton and Barto, 1998)), whereas oﬀ-policy algorithms are able to use data gath-
ered by any arbitrary policy in the same environment (e.g. Q-learning (Watkins and Dayan,
1992)). This distinction has several consequences which are notable in robotic domains for
which data collection has signiﬁcant costs.
On-policy algorithms are not able to re-use
historical data during the learning process—every time the behavior policy is updated, all
previously collected data becomes oﬀ-policy. It is also often desirable to use collected data
to simultaneously learn policies for multiple skills, rather than only a single policy; such
learning is impossible in an on-policy setting. However, despite these advantages, oﬀ-policy
learning has the signiﬁcant downside of being known to diverge under some conditions
when used with function approximation, even when it is linear (Sutton and Barto, 1998).
By contrast, on-policy methods are known to converge under mild assumptions with linear
function approximation (Sutton and Barto, 1998).
Exploration Strategies: A signiﬁcant, but often overlooked, part of policy learning
is the exploration strategy employed by the agent. This design decision can have enormous
impact on the speed of learning, based on the order in which various policies are explored.
In physical robotic manipulation tasks, this is a particularly important choice, as data is
much more diﬃcult to collect than in simulated domains. Furthermore, in the robotics
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
setting, there are concerns related to safety and possible damage to the environment during
exploration, as will be further discussed in Section 6.6.
The most common exploration strategies involve adding some form of noise to action
selection, whether it be in the form of direct perturbation of policy parameters (Theodorou
et al., 2010), Gaussian noise added to continuous actions (Lillicrap et al., 2015), or epsilon-
greedy or softmax action selection in discrete action spaces (Mnih et al., 2015). Unsurpris-
ingly, random exploration often fails to eﬃciently explore policy space, since it is typically
conﬁned to a local region near the current policy and may evaluate many similar, redundant
policies.
To address these shortcomings, exploration strategies based on the psychological con-
cept of intrinsic motivation (Chentanez et al., 2005; Oudeyer and Kaplan, 2009) have used
metrics such as novelty (Huang and Weng, 2002; Bellemare et al., 2016; Hart, 2009; Ecof-
fet et al., 2019; Burda et al., 2018), behavioral diversity (Lynch et al., 2019), uncertainty
(Martinez-Cantin et al., 2007), and empowerment (Mohamed and Rezende, 2015) to diver-
sify exploration in a more eﬀective way. However, these methods are heuristic-based and
may still lead to poor performance. In fact, many essentially aim to use intrinsic motivation
to uniformly explore the state space, ignoring structure that may provide clues about the
relevance of diﬀerent parts of the state space to the problem at hand. By contrast, other
approaches have taken advantage of structure speciﬁc to robotic manipulation by directing
exploration to discover reusable object aﬀordances (Montesano et al., 2008), or learning
exploration strategies that exploit the distribution of problems the agent might face via
metalearning (Xu et al., 2018b). Finally, as discussed in the next subsection, the diﬃculty
of exploration in RL is sometimes overcome by leveraging demonstrations of good behavior,
rather than learning from scratch.
6.4 Imitation Learning
In contrast to reinforcement learning, which learns from a robot’s experiences in the world
(or a model of it), imitation learning (Schaal, 1999; Argall et al., 2009) aims to learn about
tasks from demonstration trajectories. This can be thought of as a form of programming,
but one in which the user simply shows the robot what to do instead of writing code to
describe the desired behavior.
Learning from demonstration data has been extensively
studied in several diﬀerent settings, because it can enable the robot to leverage the existing
task expertise of (potentially non-expert) humans to (1) bypass time-consuming exploration
that would be required in a reinforcement learning setting, (2) communicate user preferences
for how a task ought to be done, and (3) describe concepts, such as a good tennis swing, that
may be diﬃcult to specify formally or programmatically. It is worth noting that imitation
learning and reinforcement learning are not mutually exclusive; in fact, it is common for
imitation learning to be followed by reinforcement learning for policy improvement (Kober
and Peters, 2009; Taylor et al., 2011).
Demonstrations in imitation learning are typically represented as trajectories of states
or state-action pairs. There are several mechanisms by which a robot may acquire such
demonstration trajectories, including teleoperation, shadowing, kinesthetic teaching, mo-
tion capture, which are discussed in greater detail in the survey by Argall et. al (Argall
et al., 2009). More recently, keyframe demonstrations (Akgun et al., 2012), virtual reality
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
demonstrations (Zhang et al., 2018; Yan et al., 2018), and video demonstrations in the so-
called learning from observation setting (Liu et al., 2018) have also become more commonly
used.
Behavioral Cloning: The simplest way to use demonstration data to learn a motor
skill is to use it as supervised training data to learn the robot’s policy. This is commonly
called behavioral cloning. Recall that a deterministic policy π is a mapping from states to
actions: π : S →A, whereas a stochastic policy maps state-action pairs to probabilities
(which sum to 1 at each state when marginalizing over actions): π : S × A →R. The
demonstration provides a set of state-action pairs (si, ai), that can be used as training data
for a supervised learning algorithm to learn policy parameters that should, ideally, be able
to reproduce the demonstrated behavior in novel scenarios.
Behavioral cloning is often used as a stand-alone learning method (Ross et al., 2011;
Bagnell et al., 2007; Torabi et al., 2018; Pastor et al., 2009; Cederborg et al., 2010; Akgun
et al., 2012; Duan et al., 2017; Hayes and Demiris, 1994; Schaal et al., 2005), as well as
a way to provide a better starting point for reinforcement learning (Pastor et al., 2011a),
though this additionally requires the speciﬁcation of a reward function for RL to optimize.
Other recent work has focused on expanding the purview of behavioral cloning by unifying
imitation learning and planning via probabilistic inference (Rana et al., 2017), utilizing
additional modalities such as haptic input (Kormushev et al., 2011), learning to recognize
and recover from errors when imitating (Pastor et al., 2011b,a), and scaling behavioral
cloning to complex, multi-step tasks such as IKEA furniture assembly (Niekum et al.,
2015b).
Reward Inference: Rather than learning a policy directly from demonstration data,
an alternative approach is to attempt to infer the underlying reward function that the
demonstrator was trying to optimize. This approach aims to extract the intent of the mo-
tion, rather than the low-level details of the motion itself. This approach is typically called
inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) (Ng et al., 2000), apprenticeship learning (Abbeel and
Ng, 2004; Boularias et al., 2012), or inverse optimal control (Moylan and Anderson, 1973;
Englert et al., 2017; Englert and Toussaint, 2018a). The inferred reward function can then
be optimized via reinforcement learning to learn a policy for the task.
The IRL paradigm has several advantages. First, if the reward function is a function
of the objects or features in the world and not the agent’s kinematics, then it can be nat-
urally ported from human to robot (or between diﬀerent robots) without encountering the
correspondence problem. In addition, reward functions are often sparse, thereby providing
a natural means of generalizing from a small amount of training data, even in very large
state spaces. In addition, the human’s behavior may encode a great deal of background
information about the task—for example, that an open can of soda should be kept upright
when it is moved—that are easy to encode in the reward function but more complex to
encode in a policy, and which can be reused in later contexts. Unfortunately, IRL also
presents several diﬃculties. Most notably, the IRL problem is fundamentally ill-posed—
inﬁnitely many reward functions exist that result in the same optimal policy (Ng et al.,
2000). Thus, the diﬀerentiation between many IRL algorithms lies in the metrics that they
use to disambiguate or show preference for certain reward functions (Abbeel and Ng, 2004;
Abbeel et al., 2010; Boularias et al., 2012; Aghasadeghi and Bretl, 2011; Englert et al., 2017;
Englert and Toussaint, 2018a).
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Maximum Entropy IRL (Ziebart, 2010) addresses the problems of demonstrator subop-
timality and ill-posedness by leveraging a probabilistic framework and the the principle of
maximum entropy to disambiguate possible reward functions. Speciﬁcally, they develop an
algorithm that assigns equal probability to all trajectories that would receive equal return
under a given reward function and then use this distribution to take gradient steps to-
ward reward functions that better match the feature counts of the demonstrations (Ziebart
et al., 2008), while avoiding having any additional preferences other than those indicated
by the data. Rather than generating a point estimate of a reward function, which forces
an algorithm to face the ill-posedness of IRL head on, Bayesian IRL (Ramachandran and
Amir, 2007) instead uses Markov Chain Monte Carlo to sample from the distribution of all
possible reward functions, given the demonstrations. Finally, in the more restricted case of
linearly-solvable MDPs, the IRL problem is well-posed, avoiding these problems (Dvijotham
and Todorov, 2010).
All of the IRL algorithms mentioned so far rely on reward functions speciﬁed as a linear
combination of features. While this does not restrict the expressivity of reward functions
in practice (more complex features can always be provided), it burdens the designer of the
system to ensure that features can be learned from in a linear manner. By contrast, Gaussian
Process and nonparametric IRL (Levine et al., 2011; Englert et al., 2017) and various neural
network-based methods (Ho and Ermon, 2016; Finn et al., 2016; Wulfmeier et al., 2015; Fu
et al., 2017) aim to partly relieve this burden by searching for reward functions that are
a nonlinear function of state features. However, such ﬂexibility in representation requires
careful regularization to avoid overﬁtting (Finn et al., 2016).
Many of the aforementioned methods have an MDP solver in the inner loop of the
algorithm. Computational costs aside, this is especially problematic for robotics settings
in which a model is not available and experience is expensive to collect. Some recent IRL
methods that have been shown to work in real robotic domains sidestep this obstacle by
alternating reward optimization and policy optimization steps (Finn et al., 2016) or framing
IRL as a more direct policy search problem that performs feature matching (Doerr et al.,
2015; Ho and Ermon, 2016). If available, ranked demonstrations can be used to get rid of
the need for inference-time policy optimization or MDP solving entirely, by converting the
IRL problem to a purely supervised problem; furthermore, this approach allows the robot
to potentially outperform the demonstrator (Brown et al., 2019a,b). Alternately, active
learning techniques have been used to reduce the computational complexity of IRL (Brown
et al., 2018; Cui and Niekum, 2018; Lopes et al., 2009), as well as strategies that make non-
I.I.D. assumptions about the informativeness of the demonstrator (Brown and Niekum,
2019; Kamalaruban et al., 2019).
Finally, outside of an imitation learning framework,
goals for the robot are sometimes speciﬁed via natural language commands that must be
interpreted in the context of the scene (Tellex et al., 2011).
Learning from Observation: A relatively new area of inquiry aims to learn from
demonstrations, even when no action labels are available and the state is not exactly known.
For example, a robot may visually observe a human performing a task, but only have
access to raw pixel data and not the true underlying state of the world, nor the actions
that the human took. This problem is referred to Learning from Observation (LfO), and
several recent approaches have addressed problems including unsupervised human-robot
correspondence learning (Sermanet et al., 2018), context translation (Liu et al., 2018),
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
adversarial behavioral cloning (Torabi et al., 2018), and IRL from unsegmented multi-step
video demonstrations (Goo and Niekum, 2019a; Yang et al., 2015). In an extreme version
of the LfO setting, the agents is expected to infer an objective from single-frame goal-state
images, rather than a full trajectory of observations (Zeng et al., 2018; Xie et al., 2018).
Corrective Interactions: Rather than learning from full demonstrations in batch,
it is often advantageous to solicit (potentially partial) corrective demonstrations or other
forms of feedback over time.
For example, a human could intervene in a pouring task
and adapt the angle of the cup and the robot’s hand mid-pour. This provides a natural
mechanism to collect data in situations where it is most needed—for example, situations
in which mistakes are being made, or where the robot is highly unsure of what to do.
Some approaches actively ask users for additional (partial) demonstrations in areas of the
state space in which conﬁdence is low (Chernova and Veloso, 2009) or risk is high (Brown
et al., 2018), while others rely on a human user to identify when a mistake has been made
(Niekum et al., 2015b). Higher level information can also be used to make more robust
corrections, such as grounded predicate-based annotations of corrections (Mueller et al.,
2018) and action suggestions in a high-level ﬁnite state machine (Holtz et al., 2018). The
robot can also actively solicit assistance when needed, for example, via natural language
(Knepper et al., 2015). Finally, rather than using corrective demonstrations, the TAMER
framework uses real-time numeric human feedback about the robot’s performance to correct
and shape behavior (Knox et al., 2013).
6.5 Skill Transfer
Given the high sample complexity of learning in complex robotics tasks, skills learned in
one task are often transferred to other tasks via a variety of mechanisms, thereby increasing
the eﬃciency of learning.
Direct Skill Re-use: One of the simplest ways to transfer a skill policy is to directly
re-use it in a new task related to the one it was learned on. Typically, some amount of
adaptation is required to achieve good performance in the new task. One simple way to
perform such reﬁnement is to initialize a new skill with an existing skill’s policy parameters
and adapt them for the new task via reinforcement learning (Pastor et al., 2009). However,
a naive realization of this approach only works when the original task and the new task
have identical state representations.
When this is not the case, transfer can still occur
via a subset of shared state features that retain semantics across tasks. This is sometimes
called an agent space (Konidaris and Barto, 2007), since these are typically agent-centric,
generic features (e.g laser scanner readings), rather than problem-speciﬁc features, or a
deictic representation (Platt et al., 2019). Since an agent space only covers some subset of
the features in a problem, transfer occurs via initialization of a value function, rather than
policy parameters.
More generally, it is often useful to ﬁnd a state abstraction—a minimal subset of state
features required to perform some skill. Abstractions facilitate transfer by explicitly ignoring
parts of the state that are irrelevant for a particular skill, which could otherwise serve as
distractors (e.g. irrelevant objects), as well as allowing transfer to state spaces of diﬀerent
sizes (as also seen in agent spaces, which are a type of abstraction). In some state spaces,
such as the visual domain, the state space is not factored in a manner that makes abstraction
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
easy (e.g. the texture of an object is not a separate state feature, but distributed across
many pixels). One popular way of forcing a deep neural network to abstract away complex
variables such as texture and color is domain randomization (Tobin et al., 2017; Bousmalis
et al., 2018), which is discussed in greater detail later in this section.
Parameterized Skills: In certain task families, only some aspects of the task context
change, while all other task semantics remain the same or are irrelevant. For example, it
may be desirable to transfer a policy that can hit one goal location on a dartboard, in
order to hit a diﬀerent goal location; similarly, transfer learning could acquire a policy for
completing a pendulum swing-up task with diﬀerent pendulum lengths and masses. In these
restricted cases, specialized parameterized skills can be learned that facilitate transfer via
mechanisms that modulate the policy based on the aspect of the task context parameter
that is changing (Calinon, 2018; Englert and Toussaint, 2018b).
Dynamic Movement Primitives (Schaal, 2006; Pastor et al., 2009) use a simple spring-
mass-damper system to smoothly adjust to new initial and goal locations. Another approach
uses manifold learning to smoothly modulate policy parameters based on a variable task
parameter (Da Silva et al., 2014). Contextual policy search uses a hierarchical, two-level
policy for low-level control and generalization across contexts, respectively (Kupcsik et al.,
2013). Universal value function approximators (Schaul et al., 2015; Andrychowicz et al.,
2017) track a value function for all ⟨state, action, goal⟩triplets, rather than only ⟨state,
action⟩pairs, allowing policy similarities across nearby goals to be leveraged explicitly.
Metalearning: Rather than re-using a skill directly for initialization, metalearning
approaches aim to “learn to learn”—in other words, learn something about a distribution
of tasks that allows for more eﬃcient learning on any particular task from that distribution
in the future. Thus, metalearning facilitates transfer within a task family by performing
learning across samples from a task distribution at training time, rather than performing
transfer sequentially and on-line as problems are encountered, as in the direct re-use case.
Model Agnostic Metalearning (MAML) (Finn et al., 2017) searches for a set of policy
parameters that can be adapted quickly for particular tasks drawn from some distribution.
Reptile (Nichol et al., 2018) simpliﬁes MAML by replacing a complex optimization with
an approximate approach that only requires standard stochastic gradient descent to be
performed on each sampled task individually. Another related metalearning approach learns
an attention-based strategy that allows the robot to imitate novel manipulation tasks, such
as block-stacking, from a single demonstration (Duan et al., 2017).
Other forms of metalearning have focused on reward functions rather than policies.
While many problems in robotic manipulation have simple sparse reward formulations (e.g.
+1 when peg is in hole, -1 otherwise), potential-based shaping rewards (Ng et al., 1999)
can be added to any reward function to encourage faster learning (across some distribution
of problems) without changing the optimal policy of the MDPs. More generally, modiﬁed
reward functions can help to overcome multiple forms of agent boundedness (Sorg et al.,
2010b) and can be found via gradient descent (Sorg et al., 2010a), genetic programming
(Niekum et al., 2010), or other evolutionary methods (Houthooft et al., 2018).
Some metalearning approaches have been developed to directly modify the represen-
tation of the policy itself, or other parts of the learning algorithm, rather than only the
settings of policy or reward parameters. This includes methods that evolve the structures
of neural networks (Stanley et al., 2009), or that learn skill embeddings (Hausman et al.,
31

===== PAGE 32 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
2018), structured exploration strategies (Gupta et al., 2018), transfer feature relevances be-
tween families (Kroemer and Sukhatme, 2017),reusable network modules (Alet et al., 2018),
or that co-learn a diﬀerentiable model and trajectory optimizer (Srinivas et al., 2018).
Domain Adaptation: In contrast to parameterized skills, some task families retain
all of their high-level semantics across instances, diﬀering only in lower-level details. In
these cases, domain adaptation techniques are commonly used to bridge the so-called do-
main gap between two (or more) domains. For example, in the “sim2real” problem, when
switching from a simulated task to a physical robot, the low-level statistics of the visual
scene and physics may change, while the high-level steps and goals of the task stay ﬁxed.
Grounded action transformations address the physics domain gap by iteratively modifying
agent-simulator interactions to better match real-world data, even when the simulator is a
ﬁxed black box (Hanna and Stone, 2017). Domain randomization is a data synthesis tech-
nique used to address visual domain gaps by randomizing environmental attributes such as
texture, color, and dynamics in simulation, as to force the system to be invariant to statis-
tical changes in the properties (Tobin et al., 2017; Bousmalis et al., 2018; Peng et al., 2018).
A diﬀerent type of visual shift can result from changes in viewpoint, often encountered
in the setting of learning from unstructured videos. Approaches to this problem have in-
cluded unsupervised learning of correspondences between ﬁrst-person and third-person task
demonstrations (Stadie et al., 2017), as well as imitation-from-observation approaches that
work from multi-viewpoint data (Liu et al., 2018). Other approaches attempt to learn dis-
entangled representations that lead naturally to robust polices that are tolerant of domain
shift (Higgins et al., 2017).
In some tasks, the state and action space may change in a manner that requires an
analogy to be made between the domains, as in the case of transferring a manipulation
policy between two robot arms with diﬀerent kinematic structures by ﬁnding a shared
latent space between the two policy representations (Gupta et al., 2017). Time Contrastive
Networks take a self-supervised metric-learning approach to a similar problem, learning
representations of behaviors that are invariant to various visual factors, enabling robot
imitation of human behaviors without an explicit correspondence (Sermanet et al., 2018).
Other methods perform a more direct mapping between states and actions (Taylor et al.,
2007), but assume that there exists a complete mapping, while the aforementioned latent
space approach is able to discover partial mappings.
Sequential Transfer and Curriculum Learning: While the aforementioned transfer
paradigms primarily consider instances of transfer individually, it is sometimes advantageous
to view multiple instances transfer as a sequential learning problem. For example, Progres-
sive Neural Networks (Rusu et al., 2016) use a neural network to learn an initial task,
transferring this knowledge to subsequent tasks by freezing the learned weights, adding a
new column of layers for the new task, and making lateral layer-wise connections to the
previous task’s neurons. Sequential transfer learning is also a useful paradigm for mastering
tasks that are too diﬃcult to learn from scratch. Rather than attack the ﬁnal task directly,
curriculum learning presents a sequence of tasks of increasing diﬃculty to the agent, which
provides a smoother gradient for learning and can make positive rewards signiﬁcantly less
sparse in an RL setting. Such methods often use curricula provided by human designers
(Bengio et al., 2009; Sanger, 1994; Pinto and Gupta, 2016), though several recent methods
32

===== PAGE 33 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
seek to automatically generate a curriculum (Narvekar et al., 2016; Svetlik et al., 2017;
Florensa et al., 2017).
Scheduled Auxiliary Control (Riedmiller et al., 2018) learns to sequentially choose from a
set of pre-deﬁned auxiliary tasks in a manner that encourages eﬃcient exploration and learn-
ing of the target task. Guided Policy Search (Levine et al., 2015) ﬁrst learns simple time-
dependent controllers for individual task instances, which are then used to generate data to
train a more complex neural network. Universal Value Function Approximators (UVFAs)
(Schaul et al., 2015) can learn and transfer knowledge more eﬃciently in curriculum-like
settings by estimating the value of a state and action conditioned upon the current goal,
rather than for a single ﬁxed goal. Hindsight Experience Replay (HER) provides additional
goal settings for UVFAs by simply executing actions, and in hindsight imagining that every
state that the agent ends up in was actually a goal (Andrychowicz et al., 2017).
Reverse curriculum learning (Florensa et al., 2017) begins at the goal and works back-
wards, trying to learn to get to the goal successfully from more and more distant states.
This stands in contrast to standard curriculum learning that typically starts in some distant
state, slowly moving the goal of the subtasks closer and closer to the true goal. This idea is
also related to that of skill chaining (Konidaris and Barto, 2009b; Konidaris et al., 2012),
which will be discussed in further detail in Section 8.1.
6.6 Safety and Performance Guarantees
Whether a policy is learned directly for a speciﬁc task or transferred from a previous task,
an important but understudied question is “How well will the policy perform across the
distribution of situations that it will face?”. This is an especially important question in
robotic manipulation, in which many future applications will require behaviors that are
safe and correct with high conﬁdence: robots that operate alongside humans in homes and
workplaces must not cause injuries, destroy property, or damage themselves; safety-critical
tasks such as surgery (Van Den Berg et al., 2010) and nuclear waste disposal (Kim et al.,
2002) must be completed with a high degree of reliability; robots that work with populations
that rely on them, such as the disabled or elderly (Goil et al., 2013), must be dependable.
While the term “safety” has taken on many diﬀerent meanings in the literature, in this
section, we take a broad view of safe learning to include all methods that aim to bound a
performance metric with high conﬁdence.
Performance Metrics: Most performance metrics for robotic manipulation tasks can
be represented as cumulative reward under some reward function—for example, the prefer-
ences of completing a task accurately, ﬁnishing within a certain amount of time, or never
(or with low probability) visiting certain states can all be described with particular reward
functions and acceptable thresholds on cumulative reward, or return. Thus, for simplicity,
we will discuss the problem of bounding performance as being equivalent to that of lower-
bounding some function of return. However, it is worth noting that certain preferences,
such as some temporal logic statements, cannot be expressed as a reward function with-
out augmenting the state space; some cannot be expressed by any reward function at all
(Littman et al., 2017).
The principle axis of variation regarding performance metrics is whether the expected
return of a policy is being bounded, or whether a risk-aware function of return is used—
33

===== PAGE 34 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
for example, a robust worst-case analysis (Ghavamzadeh et al., 2016), a PAC-style bound
(Strehl et al., 2006), or bounded value-at-risk (Chow et al., 2015; Brown et al., 2020).
Risk-aware metrics are generally more appropriate for safety-critical tasks in which the
robot could cause damage or injury in a single trial that goes poorly, whereas expected
performance is often used in scenarios in which long-term performance (e.g. percentage of
correctly manufactured items) matters more than the outcome of any single trial.
Finally, one important distinction to make is when a policy must obey performance
bounds.
Some robotics tasks, such as learning to manipulate a fragile object, demand
performance guarantees during the exploration and learning phase, rather than only after
deployment of the ﬁnal policy. For example, in one recent work, demonstrations were used
to constrain exploration in safety-critical manipulation tasks (Thananjeyan et al., 2019). By
contrast, other tasks may lend themselves to safe practice, such that only the ﬁnal policy
needs to be accompanied by guarantees. For example, a legged robot may learn a walking
gait while attached to a support rig so that it cannot catastrophically fall while learning.
Classes of Guarantees and Bounding Methods: Given that standard policy learn-
ing in robotics is a challenging open problem, in part due to limited real-world data col-
lection abilities, it is not surprising that safe learning is even more diﬃcult. Safe learning
methods are typically signiﬁcantly more data-hungry and/or require more accurate models
than standard learning methods, as they need to provide guarantees about the quality of
the policy. For this reason, very few safe learning methods (e.g. from the reinforcement
learning community) have been used in robotics applications. This is a signiﬁcant gap in the
current literature and an opportunity for future work that can provide strong performance
guarantees in low-data and poor-model robotics settings.
Safe learning methods fall roughly into two categories: Exact methods and probabilistic
high-conﬁdence bounds. Formal veriﬁcation-based approaches are exact methods that use
a known model, along with a safety speciﬁcation (e.g. a ﬁnite-state automata) to guarantee
(or bound the probability, in the stochastic case) that following a policy will not lead to
an unsafe outcome (Fu and Topcu, 2014; Fainekos et al., 2009; Chinchali et al., 2012; Chen
et al., 2013; Alshiekh et al., 2018). However, some research has focused on control synthesis
that obeys linear temporal logic constraints without access to a model (Sadigh et al., 2014).
By contrast, probabilistically safe approaches aim to provide lower-bounds on expected
return, rather than utilizing logical speciﬁcations of safety (Thomas et al., 2015b,a; Jiang
and Li, 2016; Hanna et al., 2017; Thomas and Brunskill, 2016). While probabilistic methods
appear to be promising for robotics applications (since they do not require a model), to the
best of our knowledge, they have not been used in real robotics problems, potentially due
to their high sample complexity.
Thus far, we have only considered performance guarantees in a standard MDP setting, in
which either (1) the reward function is known, or (2) samples from the reward function are
available. However, this description of the problem does not cover a common scenario that
occurs when learning from demonstrations—having access to states and actions, but not
rewards. In the inverse reinforcement learning setting, several approaches have examined
how to bound the policy loss between the the robot’s policy (commonly a policy learning
via RL under the inferred reward function) and the optimal policy under the ground-truth
reward function of the demonstrator, even though it is unknown (Abbeel and Ng, 2004;
Brown and Niekum, 2018; Brown et al., 2020).
34

===== PAGE 35 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
7. Characterizing Skills by Preconditions and Eﬀects
Executing a manipulation skills alters the state of the robot’s environment; if the robot
is to use its skills to achieve a speciﬁc goal, it requires a model of those outcomes. This
model is termed a postcondition, and describes the regions in the state space that the robot
will ﬁnd itself in after skill execution. The robot must also model the circumstances under
which the skill can be executed—termed its preconditions. Knowledge of these two models
for each skill can be used to determine whether, for example, a sequence of skills can be
executed from a particular state (Konidaris et al., 2018). Pre- and postconditions are used
to sequence skills (or actions) for task planning. The planner searches through sequences of
actions with the constraint that the postconditions of each skill must fulﬁll the preconditions
of the next skill.
7.1 Pre- and Postconditions as Propositions and Predicates
The pre- and postconditions of manipulation skills are typically represented abstractly as
either propositions or predicates (Kr¨uger et al., 2011; Kulick et al., 2013; Konidaris et al.,
2018; Beetz et al., 2010; Shapiro and Ismail, 2003; Ugur and Piater, 2015) that are either
true or false in any speciﬁc state. For example, the robot may represent the outcome of
a particular navigation skill using the boolean proposition AtTableB. It could also use a
predicate representation, At(TableB), which supports more compact and eﬃcient represen-
tations, and allows for easier generalization across objects. We therefore use predicate-based
symbols for the remainder of this section although most of the explanation also applies to
proposition symbols.
The grounding or anchoring of a predicate refers to the mapping between the (often con-
tinuous) low-level state and context and the predicate’s truth value; it deﬁnes the meaning
of the symbol (Konidaris et al., 2018; Coradeschi et al., 2013). To avoid confusion, we will
not use the term grounding for assigning objects to predicates as is done in the planning
literature (Russell and Norvig, 2003).
Classiﬁer Representation:
The grounding of a predicate can be modelled as a
binary classiﬁer (Konidaris et al., 2018; Kroemer and Sukhatme, 2016; Konidaris et al.,
2015). The classiﬁer represents the mapping from the state and context to either true or
false. If a predicate is deﬁned for a subset of objects, then the state and context features
of those objects are used as the input to the predicate classiﬁer (Kroemer and Sukhatme,
2016). For example, the predicate Grasped(KnifeA, RHand) would consider the state and
context of the knife and hand to determine if the knife was being grasped by the the hand.
The robot may learn a probabilistic classiﬁer to determine the likelihood that the predicate
is true given the current state and context. In this manner, the robot may handle situations
where the predicate is only sometimes valid, or when the classiﬁer has been learned and the
robot is uncertain of its true value in states it has not encountered before (Konidaris et al.,
2018).
Distribution Representation:
Alternatively, predicates can be modelled as prob-
ability distributions over the state space (Konidaris et al., 2018; Detry et al., 2011). The
distributions are deﬁned in the state and context space. For a non-probabilistic approach,
the distribution deﬁnes the set of states and contexts where the distribution is true, and the
predicate is false otherwise. For a probabilistic approach, the distribution deﬁnes a proba-
35

===== PAGE 36 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
bility density over the states and contexts given that the predicate is true (Konidaris et al.,
2018; Detry et al., 2011). The distribution may be deﬁned only for the objects assigned
to the predicate. This distribution is useful for sampling states and contexts in which the
predicate is true.
Modularity and Transfer:
One precondition proposition and one postcondition
proposition for each skill are suﬃcient for skill sequencing. These predicates can be mono-
lithic representations that deﬁne the sets of states and contexts for that speciﬁc skill. How-
ever, by decomposing the conditions into modular predicates, the robot can share knowledge
between diﬀerent skills and tasks. These predicates can often be deﬁned for subsets of ob-
jects, e.g., Full(mug, water) and Grasped(mug, hand). The predicates often deﬁne labels
for individual objects, e.g., Container(obj1), and the relationships between the objects,
e.g., Above(obj1,obj2). Modular predicates will often capture the contact-based manipu-
lation modes between pairs of objects, e.g., Grasped(Obj1,Hand) or On(Obj2,Obj3). Pre-
vious works have explored methods for learning speciﬁc predicates or discovering suitable
sets of predicates (Kulick et al., 2013; Montesano et al., 2008; Konidaris et al., 2018; Hjelm
et al., 2014).
Learning the preconditions and postconditions is generally easier when reusing predi-
cates from previous tasks rather than learning from scratch. However, some discrepancies
may exist between tasks and thus require additional learning (Ugur and Piater, 2015). For
example, a robot may require a speciﬁc type of grasp for performing a task. The predi-
cate Grasped(obj3,hand) is thus not suﬃcient. The robot should instead learn a general
predicate for transferring knowledge between tasks, and a task-speciﬁc predicate for incor-
porating additional constraints (Detry et al., 2017; ten Pas et al., 2017; Gualtieri and Platt,
2018; Lu and Hermans, 2019; Bohg et al., 2012; Hjelm et al., 2014). The latter predicate
is generally easier to learn given the former predicate. For example, a robot may learn to
identify stable grasps for a wide range of objects, and subsequently learn to identify a subset
of grasps for speciﬁc objects or to grasp handles of cooking utensils without relearning to
grasp from scratch (Detry et al., 2017; Gualtieri and Platt, 2018; ten Pas et al., 2017).
7.2 Learning Pre- and Postcondition Groundings
The robot can train the pre- and postcondition predicate classiﬁers using samples of states
and contexts where the conditions were known to be true or false. The ground truth labels
could be provided by a human supervisor, although this approach would limit the autonomy
of the robot and may require substantial expertise from the user. In some cases a human can
provide data for desired post- and preconditions—what the skill should achieve, from which
conditions—but the actual conditions will ultimately depend on the robot’s capabilities.
Instead of relying on manual labeling, the robot can learn the condition labels from
experience. The labels for the preconditions can be learned given a ﬁxed postcondition
— all states from which a skill execution leads to a state satisfying the postcondition are
positive examples, and all other states are negative examples.
The robot should use a
probabilistic classiﬁer to capture the stochasticity of the transitions. The robot can thus
obtain the precondition labels by executing the skill from diﬀerent states and observing the
resulting outcomes.
36

===== PAGE 37 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
The postconditions are less trivial to deﬁne. A human may predeﬁne a desired post-
condition, but to achieve autonomy the robot must discover diﬀerent postconditions on its
own. Distinct postconditions can be learned by clustering the outcomes of the skill from
diﬀerent initial states and contexts (Dogar et al., 2007; Ugur et al., 2009; Ugur and Pi-
ater, 2015). Manipulation skills often have distinct eﬀects, e.g., a box remained upright
or toppled over, which can be extracted through clustering or by detecting salient events.
Each distinct postcondition cluster will then be associated with its own preconditions. This
approach is often employed in developmental learning to discover speciﬁc useful skills from
more general skill policies, e.g., grasping and pushing from reaching (Oztop et al., 2004;
Juett and Kuipers, 2018).
A more goal-oriented approach to specifying postconditions is to construct skills where
the postcondition is either the goal of the task or another skill’s precondition (Konidaris and
Barto, 2009b; Konidaris et al., 2011a). This approach directly learns pre- and postconditions
for constructing skills that can be sequentially executed, and may avoid learning conditions
that are irrelevant to the robot’s task set, but it introduces dependencies between the robot’s
skills.
Finally, pre- and postcondition predicates can be grounded in sensory data with the
assistance of natural language, for example, as part of an interactive dialogue between a
human and a robot (Thomason et al., 2016). Conversely, knowledge of pre- and postcon-
ditions of skills can help to ground natural language commands to those skills, especially
when the language description is incomplete (Misra et al., 2014). For example, the com-
mand “Stir the soup” may imply picking up a spoon ﬁrst, which could be determined via
the precondition to a stirring skill.
7.3 Skill Monitoring and Outcome Detection
Most skills will have distinct pre- and postconditions with some of the predicates changing
as a result of the skill execution, e.g., executing a grasping skill on a book should result
in Grasped(Book,RHand)=True once the book has been grasped (Dang and Allen, 2012;
Garrett et al., 2018). The predicates may also change due to errors in the skill execution.
For example, when executing a placing skill, the predicate values On(Book, Table)=False
or InCollision(Book, Obstacle)=True would correspond to errors. To perform manipu-
lation tasks robustly, the robot must monitor its skill executions and determine if and when
it has achieved the intended outcome or whether an error has occurred.
Learning Goal and Error Classiﬁers:
Goals and errors in skill executions can
be modeled as distinct predicates with values that are switched for the postconditions.
Detecting goals and errors can thus be modelled as a classiﬁcation problem (Bekiroglu
et al., 2013; Rodriguez et al., 2010). Rather than using only the current state, the robot
can incorporate action and sensor information from the entire skill execution (Bekiroglu
et al., 2013; Madry et al., 2014; Rodriguez et al., 2010), although it is often better to stop
a skill early when an error occurs (Pastor et al., 2012; Su et al., 2016; Sukhoy et al., 2012).
Transient events, such as vibrations from mode transitions or incipient slip can then be used
to better detect the predicate switches (Park et al., 2016; Veiga et al., 2015; Su et al., 2016).
The robot can use a variety of sensor modalities, including vision and audio, to detect the
predicate switches, e.g., a robot can use tactile sensing to determine if a grasp attempt
37

===== PAGE 38 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
succeeded Grasped(obj)=True (Calandra et al., 2018; Dang and Allen, 2012; Madry et al.,
2014; Dang and Allen, 2013). A robot can also learn optimal locations for placing a camera,
or other sensor, to reliably verify if a desired postcondition has been fulﬁlled (Saran et al.,
2017).
Detecting Deviations from Nominal Sensory Values: Stereotypical executions of
a manipulation skill will usually result in similar sensations during the execution. Larger
deviations from these nominal values often correspond to errors (Yamaguchi and Atkeson,
2016b). Hidden Markov models can be used to track the successful progress of a skill’s
execution based on sensory signals (Park et al., 2016; Lello et al., 2013; Hovland and Mc-
Carragher, 1998; Bekiroglu et al., 2010). The robot may also learn the nominal sensory
signals as a regression problem (Pastor et al., 2011a; Kappler et al., 2015; Sukhoy et al.,
2012). Signiﬁcant deviations from the expected sensory values would then trigger the stop-
ping of the current skill. An error may also trigger a corresponding recovery action (Dang
and Allen, 2013; Veiga et al., 2018; Yamaguchi and Atkeson, 2017). Unlike the outcome
classiﬁers from the previous section, these models are trained using only data from successful
trials.
Verifying Predicates: The pre- and postconditions of skills often change the val-
ues of predicates corresponding to modes and constraints between objects.
For exam-
ple, a placing skill can make On(DishC,DishB)=True and an unlocking skill can make
Locked(DoorA)=False. The robot can verify these swiches in the predicate values using
interactive perception. In some cases the predicate can be veriﬁed by directly performing
the next skill in the sequence, e.g., attempting to lift an object after it has been grasped
(Pinto and Gupta, 2016; Kalashnikov et al., 2018). For contact constraints, the robot can
often perform small perturbations to verify the predicate’s ﬁnal value (Debus et al., 2004;
Wang and Kroemer, 2019). In both examples, the robot can obtain a better estimate of
the predicate by performing the additional skill and observing the eﬀect. However, the
additional skills can sometimes also change the predicates, and hence some care needs to
be taken when verﬁying predicates.
7.4 Predicates and Skill Synthesis
Skills will often have additional high-level arguments that deﬁne how to execute the skill
(Ugur et al., 2011). For example, a grasping skill may take in a grasping pose, or a scrubbing
skill may take in a desired force (Bohg et al., 2014). In this manner, a higher-level policy
may adapt the skill to its speciﬁc needs.
Representing and Synthesizing Skill Parameters: Similar to the predicate repre-
sentations, these policy parameter arguments can be modeled as additional input features
for the precondition classiﬁer or as distributions over valid and invalid argument values
(Detry et al., 2011; Jiang et al., 2012).
Many of these arguments can even be thought
of as virtual or desired object states (Jiang et al., 2012). For example, one could sample
potential hand positions for grasping objects and model each one as a symbol for specifying
the grasping action (Garrett et al., 2018; Bohg et al., 2014). To obtain valid grasp frames,
the robot can learn a classiﬁer to determine if sampled grasp frames will lead to successful
grasps (Saxena et al., 2008; Nguyen and Kemp, 2014; Herzog et al., 2014; Pinto and Gupta,
2016), or sample from a learned probability density over successful grasps or cached grasps
38

===== PAGE 39 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
from similar objects (Detry et al., 2011; Brook et al., 2011; Goldfeder et al., 2009; Choi
et al., 2018). The process of learning the pre- and post- conditions with additional policy
arguments is thus similar to learning the preconditions without the arguments.
Once the robot has learned the pre- and postconditions over the arguments, it can use
these to select skill parameters for new situations. This process usually involves sampling
diﬀerent parameter values and evaluating them in terms of the pre- and postconditions. The
robot could use sampling and optimization methods to select argument values with high
likelihoods of successful skill executions. As these parameters are often lower dimensional
than full skills, active learning and multi-armed bandit methods can be used to select
suitable argument values (Montesano and Lopes, 2012; Mahler et al., 2016; Kroemer et al.,
2010). When the positive distribution is learned directly, the robot can sample from the
distribution and then evaluate if it is consistent with other predicates, e.g., not in collision
(Ciocarlie et al., 2014).
The arguments are usually selected in order to achieve certain
predicates in the postconditions. One can therefore think of the argument selection process
as predicate synthesis (Ames et al., 2018).
Preconditions and Aﬀordances:
Aﬀordances are an important concept in manip-
ulation and a considerable amount of research has explored learning aﬀordances for robots
(Sahin et al., 2007; Min et al., 2016; Jamone et al., 2018). The aﬀordances of an object are
the actions or manipulations that the object aﬀords an agent (Gibson, 2014). An object
that can be used to perform an action is thus said to aﬀord that action to the agent. For
example, a ball aﬀords bouncing, grasping, and rolling. Aﬀordances are thus closely related
to the preconditions of skills. As aﬀordances connect objects to skills (Montesano et al.,
2008), aﬀordance representations often include skill arguments that deﬁne how the skill
would be executed(Ugur et al., 2011; Kroemer et al., 2012).
The exact usage of the term aﬀordances tends to vary across research papers (Jamone
et al., 2018). In most cases, aﬀordances can be seen as a form of partial preconditions. The
aﬀordances often correspond to speciﬁc predicates that the robot learns in the same manner
as the preconditions. The other components of the precondition are usually constant or at
least all valid, such that the success or failure of the skill only depends on the component
being learned. As partial preconditions, some aﬀordances are more speciﬁc than others,
e.g., balls can be rolled versus balls on a plane within reach of the robot can be rolled.
Ultimately, the full preconditions need to be fulﬁlled to perform the skill. However, the
partial preconditions of aﬀordances provide modularity and can help the robot to search
for suitable objects for performing tasks.
8. Learning Compositional and Hierarchical Task Structures
In the previous sections, we have focused on learning models of individual objects, or on
learning to perform or characterize individual motor skills. However, manipulation tasks
often have a substantial modular structure that can be exploited to improve performance
across a family of tasks. Therefore, some research has attempted to decompose the solution
to a manipulation task into component skills.
Decomposing tasks this way has several
advantages. Individual component skills can be learned more eﬃciently because each skill is
shorter-horizon, resulting in a substantially easier learning problem and aiding exploration.
Each skill can use its own internal skill-speciﬁc abstraction (Diuk et al., 2009; Konidaris and
39

===== PAGE 40 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
Barto, 2009a; van Seijen et al., 2013; Cobo et al., 2014; Jiang et al., 2015) that allows it to
focus on only relevant objects and state features, decomposing a problem that may be high-
dimensional if treated monolithically into one that is a sequence of low-dimensional subtasks.
A skill’s recurrence in diﬀerent settings results in more opportunities to obtain relevant data,
often oﬀering the opportunity to generalize; conversely, reusing skills in multiple problem
settings can avoid the need to relearn elements of the problem from scratch each time,
resulting in faster per-task learning. Finally, these component skills create a hierarchical
structure that oﬀers the opportunity to solve manipulation tasks using higher-level states
and actions—resulting in an easier learning problem—than those in which the task was
originally deﬁned.
8.1 The Form of a Motor Skill
The core of hierarchical structure in manipulation learning tasks is identifying the compo-
nent skills from which a solution can likely be assembled.
Recall that skills are often modeled as options, each of which is described by a tuple
o = (Io, βo, πo), where:
• Io : S →{0, 1} is the initiation set, which corresponds to a precondition as discussed
in Section 7.
• βo : S →[0, 1], the termination condition, describes the probability that option o
ceases execution upon reaching state s. This corresponds to a goal as discussed in
Section 7, but is distinct from an eﬀect; the goal is the set of states in which the skill
could (or perhaps should) terminate, whereas the eﬀect describes where it actually
terminates (typically either a subset of the goal or a distribution over states in the
goal).
• πo is the option policy.
In many cases, option policies are deﬁned indirectly using a reward function Ro, often con-
sisting of a completion reward for reaching βo plus a background cost function. πo can then
be obtained using any reinforcement learning algorithm, by treating βo as an absorbing goal
set. The core question for ﬁnding component skills when solving a manipulation problem
is therefore to deﬁne the relevant termination goal βo—i.e, identify the target goal—from
which Ro can be constructed.
The robot may construct a skill library, consisting of a collection of multiple skills that
can be frequently reused across tasks. This requires extracting a collection of skills, either
from demonstrations, or from behaviors generated autonomously by the robot itself. The
key question here is how to identify the skills, which is a diﬃcult, and somewhat under-
speciﬁed, challenge. There are two dominant approaches in the literature: segmenting task
solution trajectories into individual component skills, or directly including skill speciﬁcation
as part of the overall problem when learning to solve tasks.
8.2 Segmenting Trajectories into Component Skills
One approach to identifying a skill library is to obtain solution trajectories for a collection of
tasks, and segment those trajectories into a collection of skills that retroactively decompose
40

===== PAGE 41 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
the input trajectories. This is commonly done using demonstration trajectories, though
it could also be performed on trajectories generated autonomously by the robot, typically
after learning (Hart, 2008; Konidaris et al., 2011a; Riano and McGinnity, 2012). However
they are generated, the resulting trajectories must be segmented into component skills.
The literature contains a large array of methods for performing the segmentation, which we
group into two broad categories.
Segmentation Based on Skill Similarity: The most direct approach is to segment
demonstration trajectories into repeated subtasks, each of which may occur in many dif-
ferent contexts (Dang and Allen, 2010; Meier et al., 2011). Identifying such repeated tasks
both reduces the size of the skill library (which in turn reduces the complexity of planning
or learning which skill to use when) and maximizes the data available to learn each skill
(Lioutikov et al., 2015). This requires a measure of skill similarity that expresses a distance
metric between two candidate skill segments, or more directly models the probability with
which they were generated by the same skill. Therefore, several approaches have used a
measure of skill similarity to segment demonstration trajectories, often based on a variant
of a Hidden Markov model, where the demonstrated behavior is modeled as the result of
the execution of a sequence of latent skills; segmentation in this case amounts to inferring
the most likely sequence of skills.
The most direct approach (Jenkins and Matari´c, 2004; Chiappa and Peters, 2010; Groll-
man and Jenkins, 2010; Niekum et al., 2015b; Meier et al., 2011; Daniel et al., 2016b)
is policy similarity, which measures skill similarity by ﬁtting the data to a parameterized
policy class and measuring distance in parameter space. Alternative approaches to policy
similarity ﬁt models to the underlying value function (Konidaris et al., 2012) or the un-
observed reward function that the skill behavior is implicitly maximizing (Ranchod et al.,
2015; Krishnan et al., 2019; Michini and How, 2012; Choi and Kim, 2012; Babes et al., 2011).
Some approaches segment demonstration trajectories and then merge similar skills in a sep-
arate post-processing step (Konidaris et al., 2012), while the most principled probabilistic
approaches infer shared skills across a collection of trajectories as part of the segmenta-
tion process (Niekum et al., 2015b; Ranchod et al., 2015). Rather than using a parametric
model, a latent space can be discovered that eﬃciently encodes skills, which are either
learned from experience in a reinforcement learning context, or via a latent-space segmen-
tation of trajectories in an imitation learning setting (Hausman et al., 2017, 2018). Other
recent approaches have relied on observations only, learning to segment videos of multi-step
tasks into composable primitives (Goo and Niekum, 2019b; Yu et al., 2018; Huang et al.,
2019; Xu et al., 2018a).
A less direct approach is to measure skill-similarity based on pre- and post-condition
similarity, where the skill policy or trajectory itself is not used for segmentation. Instead,
trajectory segments that achieve the same goal can be clustered together, while those that do
so from very diﬀerent initial conditions could be split (Kroemer et al., 2014). Thus, reaching
and pushing motions are diﬀerent skills due to their distinct pre- and post- conditions, i.e.,
moving or not moving an object, even if the skill policies are similar or the same. This
approach is often used in developmental learning approaches to discover skills (Weng et al.,
2001); the robot executes a skill policy in a variety of scenarios and then clusters together
the post- and pre- conditions to create distinct skills (Xie et al., 2018; Niekum and Barto,
2011; Ugur et al., 2011; Ugur and Piater, 2015; Ugur and Piater, 2015).
41

===== PAGE 42 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
Segmentation Based on Speciﬁc Events: Several approaches use pre-designated
events to indicate skill boundaries. These can range from hand-speciﬁed task-speciﬁc events
to more generally applicable principles.
One common approach is to segment by salient sensory events deﬁned by haptic, tactile,
audio, or visual cues (Juett and Kuipers, 2018; Su et al., 2016; Fitzpatrick et al., 2006; Aksoy
et al., 2011). For example, insertion skills are easier to monitor if they result in a distinct
click upon successful completion. Similarly, we can determine if a light switch was properly
pushed if the light goes on or the button cannot be pushed any further.
Human-made
objects are often designed to provide salient event feedback to reduce errors while using the
objects. Such skills have the advantage that their termination conditions are easy to detect
and monitor.
Another important class of pre-deﬁned segmentation events is transitioning between
modes (Baisero et al., 2015; Kroemer et al., 2015). Switching between modes allows the
robot to switch between the ability to interact with diﬀerent objects. Hence, the robot
must ﬁrst transition to a suitable mode to manipulate an object. Skills for transitioning to
speciﬁc modes allow the robot to decouple accessing a mode and using the mode to perform
a manipulation task. Grasping, lifting, placing, and releasing are all examples of skills used
to switch between modes in pick-and-place tasks. Mode transitions can also be veriﬁed
by applying additional actions to determine if the skill execution was successful. However,
multiple skills within a mode, e.g., squeezing, shaking, and tilting a held object, cannot be
detected using only this type of decomposition.
8.3 Discovering Skills While Solving Tasks
An alternative approach is to discover component motor skills during the process of learning
to solve one or more manipulation tasks. This has two crucial advantages over solution
trajectory segmentation. First, learned skills could aid in solving the tasks to begin with;
many complex manipulation tasks cannot be solved directly without decomposing them
into simpler tasks, so it will be infeasible to require that a complete solution precede skill
discovery.
Second, imposing hierarchical structure during learning can inject bias that
results in much more compact skill libraries. For example, there may be multiple ways to
turn a switch; there is no reason to expect that a robot that independently learns to solve
several tasks involving switches will ﬁnd a similar policy each time. However, if the learned
policy for turning a switch is identiﬁed and retained in the ﬁrst task, then it will likely be
reused in the second task.
Broadly speaking, there are substantially fewer successful approaches that learn skills
while solving tasks than there are approaches that retroactively segment, in part because
the problem is fundamentally harder than segmentation. For example, skill similarity ap-
proaches are diﬃcult to apply here. However, some researchers have applied methods based
on speciﬁc salient events (Hart, 2008) to trigger skill creation. These methods could be
combined with skill chaining (Konidaris and Barto, 2009b; Konidaris et al., 2011a)—an ap-
proach where skills are constructed to either reach a salient event or to reach another skill’s
preconditions—to learn the motor skills online. An alternative is to structure the policy
class with which the robot learns to include hierarchical components which can be extracted
after learning and reused. This approach naturally ﬁts recent research using deep neural
42

===== PAGE 43 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
networks for policy learning (Nachum et al., 2018; Vezhnevets et al., 2017; Levy et al., 2019),
which are sometimes structured to be successively executable in a manner similar to skill
chaining (Kumar et al., 2018), but have been used in other more compact representations
(Daniel et al., 2013, 2016a). Another approach aims to incrementally discover hierarchi-
cal skills that progressively learn to control factorized aspects of the environment, such as
objects (Chuck et al., 2020). These new results are exciting but have only just begun to
scratch the surface of how component motor skills can be learned during the robot’s task
learning process.
8.4 Learning Decision-Making Abstractions
A collection of abstract motor skills provides procedural abstraction to the robot; it can
abstract over the low-level details of what it must do to solve the task. However, these motor
skills also provide an opportunity for abstracting over the input the robot uses to decide
which skill to execute. Learning such abstract structures have two potential advantages:
First, the new abstract input may make learning for new tasks easier (or even unnecessary
by enabling generalized abstract policies that work across tasks) and support abstract,
task-level planning. Second, the resulting abstract representations may be much easier for
a non-expert to edit, update, and interpret.
Broadly speaking, the literature contains two types of learned abstractions for decision-
making. The ﬁrst type learns an abstract policy directly, while the second learns an abstract
state space that serves as the basis for either planning or much faster learning in new tasks.
Learning Abstract Policy Representations: Here the goal is to learn a generalized
abstract policy that solves a class of problems. Often this policy encodes a mapping from
abstract quantities to learned motor skills. For example, the policy for opening a door
might include ﬁrst checking to see if it is locked and if so, executing the unlock skill; then
grasping the handle, turning it, and opening the door. Here the motor skills subsume the
low-level variations in task execution (e.g., turning diﬀerently shaped doorknobs) while the
abstract quantities subsume diﬀerences in task logic (e.g., checking to see if the door is
locked). Approaches here diﬀer primarily by the representation of the policy itself, ranging
from ﬁnite-state machines (Niekum et al., 2015b) to associative skill memories (Pastor et al.,
2012) to hierarchical task networks (Hayes and Scassellati, 2016) to context-free grammars
(Lioutikov et al., 2018).
In some cases these result in a natural and intuitive form of
incremental policy repair and generalization (Niekum et al., 2015b; Hayes and Scassellati,
2016).
Learning Abstract State Spaces: Alternatively, the robot could learn abstract rep-
resentations of state, which when combined with abstract actions result in a new, but
hopefully much simpler, and typically discrete, MDP. The robot can then use that simpler
MDP to either learn faster, or to learn a task model and then plan. Several approaches
have been applied here, for example using the status of the skills available to the robot as a
state space (Brock et al., 2005; Hart, 2008), ﬁnding representations that minimize planning
loss (Kulick et al., 2013; Jetchev et al., 2013; Ugur and Piater, 2015; Ugur and Piater,
2015), using qualitative state abstractions (Mugan and Kuipers, 2012) and constructing
compact MDPs that are provably sound and complete for task-level planning (Konidaris,
2016; Konidaris et al., 2018; Ames et al., 2018). These approaches oﬀer a natural means
43

===== PAGE 44 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
of abstracting away the low-level detail common to learning for manipulation tasks, and
exploiting the structure common to task families to ﬁnd minimal compact descriptions that
support maximally eﬃcient learning.
Taken together, hierarchical and compositional approaches have great promise for ex-
ploiting the structure in manipulation learning tasks, to reduce sample complexity and
achieve generality, and have only begun to be carefully explored. This is a challenging area
full of important questions, and where several breakthroughs still remain to be made.
9. Conclusion
This paper has presented an overview of key manipulation challenges and the types of robot
learning algorithms that have been developed to address these challenges. We explained
how robots can represent objects and learn features hierarchically, and how these features
and object properties can be estimated using passive and interactive perception. We have
discussed how the eﬀects of manipulations can themselves be captured by learning continu-
ous, discrete, and hybrid transition models. Diﬀerent data collection strategies and model
types determine how quickly the robot can learn the transition models and how well the
models generalize to new scenarios.
Skill policies can often be learned quickly from human demonstrations using behavioural
cloning or apprenticeship learning, while mastery of manipulation skills often requires ad-
ditional experience and can be achieved using model-based or model-free reinforcement
learning.
Given a skill, the robot can learn its preconditions and eﬀects to capture its
utility in diﬀerent scenarios. Learning to monitor manipulation skills by detecting errors
and goals imbues them with an additional level of robustness for working in unstructured
environments.
Finally, we have seen how a robot can exploit the modular nature of manipulation tasks,
such that each learned skill can be incorporated into a larger hierarchy to perform more
advanced tasks, promoting reusability and robustness of skills across diﬀerent tasks.
Given the multi-faceted nature of manipulation, researchers have found great utility
in being able to draw from methods that span the breadth of machine learning. However,
despite access to these excellent generic machine learning methods, the challenges of learning
robust and versatile manipulation skills are still far from being resolved. Some—but by no
means all—of these pressing challenges are:
• Integrating learning into complete control systems
• Using learned components as they are being learned (in situ learning)
• Safe learning, and learning with guarantees
• Exploiting and integrating multiple sensory modalities, including human cues
• Better exploration strategies, possibly based on explicit hypotheses or causal reasoning
• Exploiting common-sense physical knowledge
• Better algorithms for transfer across substantially diﬀerent families of tasks
44

===== PAGE 45 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
• Drastically improving the sample complexity of policy learning algorithms, while
avoiding having to empirically tune hyper-parameters
As the community tackles these and other challenges, we expect that the core themes
that have emerged repeatedly in manipulation learning research—modularity and hierarchy,
generalization across objects, and the need for autonomous discovery—will continue playing
a key role in designing eﬀective solutions.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Animesh Garg for all of his help and insightful discussions,
and Ben Abbatematteo, Daniel Brown, Caleb Chuck, Matt Corsaro, Yuchen Cui, Eren
Derman, Wonjoon Goo, Prasoon Goyal, Reymundo Gutierrez, Ajinkya Jain, Timothy Lee,
Qiao (Jacky) Liang, Ruldolf Liutikov, Matt Mason, Akanksha Saran, Mohit Sharma, and
Garrett Warnell for their feedback and comments on the draft.
This work was supported in part by the National Science Foundation (IIS-1724157, IIS-
1638107, IIS-1617639, IIS-1749204, IIS-1717569), the Oﬃce of Naval Research (N00014-18-
2243, N00014-18-1-2775) and the Sony Corporation.
References
B. Abbatematteo, S. Tellex, and G. Konidaris. Learning to generalize kinematic models to
novel objects. In Proceedings of The 3rd Conference on Robot Learning, Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pages 1289–1299, 2019.
P. Abbeel and A. Y. Ng. Apprenticeship learning via inverse reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Machine learning, pages 1–8, 2004.
P. Abbeel, A. Coates, and A. Y. Ng. Autonomous helicopter aerobatics through appren-
ticeship learning. International Journal of Robotics Research, 29(13):1608–1639, 2010.
A. AbuZaiter, M. Nafea, and M. S. Mohamed Ali. Development of a shape-memory-alloy
micromanipulator based on integrated bimorph microactuators. Mechatronics, 38:16 –
28, 2016. ISSN 0957-4158.
N. Aghasadeghi and T. Bretl. Maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning in continu-
ous state spaces with path integrals. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1561–1566, 2011.
P. Agrawal, A. V. Nair, P. Abbeel, J. Malik, and S. Levine. Learning to poke by poking:
Experiential learning of intuitive physics. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 29, pages 5074–5082, 2016.
A. Ajay, J. Wu, N. Fazeli, M. Bauza, L. P. Kaelbling, J. B. Tenenbaum, and A. Rodriguez.
Augmenting physical simulators with stochastic neural networks: Case study of planar
pushing and bouncing. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3066–3073, 2018.
45

===== PAGE 46 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
B. Akgun, M. Cakmak, K. Jiang, and A. L. Thomaz. Keyframe-based learning from demon-
stration: Method and evaluation. International Journal of Social Robotics, 4(4):343–355,
2012.
E. E. Aksoy, A. Abramov, J. D¨orr, K. Ning, B. Dellen, and F. W¨org¨otter. Learning the
semantics of object-action relations by observation. International Journal of Robotics
Research, 30(10):1229–1249, 2011.
F. Alet, T. Lozano-Perez, and L. P. Kaelbling. Modular meta-learning. In Proceedings of
The 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, volume 87 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 856–868, 2018.
B. Alexe, T. Deselaers, and V. Ferrari. Measuring the objectness of image windows. IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 34(11):2189–2202, 2012.
M. Alshiekh, R. Bloem, R. Ehlers, B. K¨onighofer, S. Niekum, and U. Topcu. Safe reinforce-
ment learning via shielding. In Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, 2018.
B. Ames, A. Thackston, and G. Konidaris. Learning symbolic representations for planning
with parameterized skills. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 526–533, 2018.
H. B. Amor, O. Kroemer, U. Hillenbrand, G. Neumann, and J. Peters. Generalization of
human grasping for multi-ﬁngered robot hands. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 2043–2050, 2012.
M. Andrychowicz, F. Wolski, A. Ray, J. Schneider, R. Fong, P. Welinder, B. McGrew,
J. Tobin, O. P. Abbeel, and W. Zaremba. Hindsight experience replay. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 30, pages 5048–5058, 2017.
M. Andrychowicz, B. Baker, M. Chociej, R. J´ozefowicz, B. McGrew, J. Pachocki, A. Petron,
M. Plappert, G. Powell, A. Ray, J. Schneider, S. Sidor, J. Tobin, P. Welinder, L. Weng,
and W. Zaremba. Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation. International Journal of
Robotics Research, 39(1):3–20, 2020.
B. D. Argall, S. Chernova, M. Veloso, and B. Browning. A survey of robot learning from
demonstration. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 57(5):469–483, 2009.
C. G. Atkeson, A. W. Moore, and S. Schaal. Locally weighted learning. Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Review, 11(1-5):11–73, 1997a.
C. G. Atkeson, A. W. Moore, and S. Schaal. Locally weighted learning for control. Artiﬁcial
Intelligence Review, 11(1-5):75–113, 1997b.
M. Babaeizadeh, C. Finn, D. Erhan, R. H. Campbell, and S. Levine. Stochastic varia-
tional video prediction. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2018.
46

===== PAGE 47 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
M. Babes, V. Marivate, K. Subramanian, and M. L. Littman. Apprenticeship learning about
multiple intentions.
In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 897–904, 2011.
J. Bagnell, J. Chestnutt, D. M. Bradley, and N. D. Ratliﬀ. Boosting structured prediction
for imitation learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 19, pages
1153–1160, 2007.
A. Baisero, Y. Mollard, M. Lopes, M. Toussaint, and I. Lutkebohle. Temporal segmentation
of pair-wise interaction phases in sequential manipulation demonstrations. In Proceedings
of the 2015 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages
478–484, 2015.
D. Ballard. Task frames in robot manipulation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 1984.
P. Barrag´an, L. P. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez. Interactive Bayesian identiﬁcation of
kinematic mechanisms. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 2013–2020, 2014.
M. Baum, M. Bernstein, R. Mart´ın-Mart´ın, S. H¨ofer, J. Kulick, M. Toussaint, A. Kacelnik,
and O. Brock. Opening a lockbox through physical exploration. In Proceedings of the
2017 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages 461–467, 2017.
M. Bauza and A. Rodriguez. A probabilistic data-driven model for planar pushing. In
Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 3008–3015, 2017.
M. Beetz, L. M¨osenlechner, and M. Tenorth. CRAM: A cognitive robot abstract machine
for everyday manipulation in human environments. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1012–1017, 2010.
Y. Bekiroglu, D. Kragic, and V. Kyrki.
Learning grasp stability based on tactile data
and hmms. In Proceedings of the 19th International Symposium in Robot and Human
Interactive Communication, pages 132–137, 2010.
Y. Bekiroglu, D. Song, L. Wang, and D. Kragic. A probabilistic framework for task-oriented
grasp stability assessment. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 3040–3047, 2013.
M. Bellemare, S. Srinivasan, G. Ostrovski, T. Schaul, D. Saxton, and R. Munos. Unifying
count-based exploration and intrinsic motivation. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 29, pages 1471–1479, 2016.
Y. Bengio, J. Louradour, R. Collobert, and J. Weston. Curriculum learning. In Proceedings
of the 26th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 41–48, 2009.
N. Bergstr¨om, C. H. Ek, D. Kragic, Y. Yamakawa, T. Senoo, and M. Ishikawa. On-line
learning of temporal state models for ﬂexible objects. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE-
RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages 712–718, 2012.
47

===== PAGE 48 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
T. Bhattacharjee, J. Wade, and C. Kemp. Material recognition from heat transfer given
varying initial conditions and short-duration contact. In Robotics: Science and Systems
XI, 2015.
B. Bischoﬀ, D. Nguyen-Tuong, H. Van Hoof, A. Mchutchon, C. E. Rasmussen, A. Knoll,
J. Peters, and M. P. Deisenroth. Policy search for learning robot control using sparse data.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 3882–3887, 2014.
M. Bj¨orkman, Y. Bekiroglu, V. H¨ogman, and D. Kragic.
Enhancing visual perception
of shape through tactile glances. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3180–3186, 2013.
J. Bohg and D. Kragic. Learning grasping points with shape context. Robotics and Au-
tonomous Systems, 58(4):362–377, 2010.
J. Bohg, K. Welke, B. Le´on, M. Do, D. Song, W. Wohlkinger, M. Madry, A. Ald´oma,
M. Przybylski, T. Asfour, H. Mart´ı, D. Kragic, A. Morales, and M. Vincze. Task-based
grasp adaptation on a humanoid robot. In Proceedings of the 10th IFAC Symposium on
Robot Control, pages 779–786, 2012.
J. Bohg, A. Morales, T. Asfour, and D. Kragic. Data-driven grasp synthesis—a survey.
IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 30(2):289–309, 2014.
J. Bohg, K. Hausman, B. Sankaran, O. Brock, D. Kragic, S. Schaal, and G. S. Sukhatme.
Interactive perception: Leveraging action in perception and perception in action. IEEE
Transactions on Robotics, 33(6):1273–1291, 2017.
B. Boots, A. Gretton, and G. J. Gordon. Hilbert space embeddings of predictive state
representations. In Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Uncertainty in
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 92–101, 2013.
A. Boularias, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters. Structured apprenticeship learning. In P. A. Flach,
T. De Bie, and N. Cristianini, editors, Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in
Databases, pages 227–242. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2012.
K. Bousmalis, A. Irpan, P. Wohlhart, Y. Bai, M. Kelcey, M. Kalakrishnan, L. Downs,
J. Ibarz, P. Pastor, K. Konolige, et al.
Using simulation and domain adaptation to
improve eﬃciency of deep robotic grasping. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2018.
S. Brandl, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters. Generalizing pouring actions between objects using
warped parameters. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE-RAS International Conference on
Humanoid Robots, pages 616–621, 2014.
O. Brock, A. Fagg, R. Grupen, R. Platt, M. Rosenstein, and J. Sweeney. A framework for
learning and control in intelligent humanoid robots. International Journal of Humanoid
Robotics, 2(3):301–336, 2005.
48

===== PAGE 49 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
P. Brook, M. Ciocarlie, and K. Hsiao. Collaborative grasp planning with multiple object
representations. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pages 2851–2858, 2011.
J. Brookshire and S. Teller. Articulated pose estimation using tangent space approximations.
International Journal of Robotics Research, 35(1-3):5–29, 2016.
D. Brown, W. Goo, P. Nagarajan, and S. Niekum. Extrapolating beyond suboptimal demon-
strations via inverse reinforcement learning from observations. In Proceedings of the 36th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 783–792, 2019a.
D. S. Brown and S. Niekum. Eﬃcient probabilistic performance bounds for inverse reinforce-
ment learning. In Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
2018.
D. S. Brown and S. Niekum.
Machine teaching for inverse reinforcement learning: Al-
gorithms and applications. In Proceedings of the 33rd AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, 2019.
D. S. Brown, Y. Cui, and S. Niekum. Risk-aware active inverse reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, pages 362–372, 2018.
D. S. Brown, W. Goo, and S. Niekum. Better-than-demonstrator imitation learning via
automatically-ranked demonstrations. In Proceedings of The 3rd Conference on Robot
Learning, Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 330–359, 2019b.
D. S. Brown, R. Coleman, R. Srinivasan, and S. Niekum. Safe imitation learning via fast
bayesian reward inference from preferences.
In Proceedings of the 37th International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2020.
J. Buchli, F. Stulp, E. Theodorou, and S. Schaal. Learning variable impedance control.
International Journal of Robotics Research, 30(7):820–833, 2011.
K. Bullard, S. Chernova, and A. L. Thomaz. Human-driven feature selection for a robotic
agent learning classiﬁcation tasks from demonstration. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 6923–6930, 2018.
B. Burchﬁel and G. Konidaris. Bayesian eigenobjects: A uniﬁed framework for 3D robot
perception. In Robotics: Science and Systems XIII, 2017.
B. Burchﬁel and G. Konidaris. Hybrid Bayesian eigenobjects: Combining linear subspace
and deep network methods for 3D robot vision. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 6843–6850, 2018.
Y. Burda, H. Edwards, A. Storkey, and O. Klimov. Exploration by random network distil-
lation. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Learning Representations,
2018.
A. Byravan and D. Fox. SE3-nets: Learning rigid body motion using deep neural networks.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 173–180, 2016.
49

===== PAGE 50 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
R. Calandra, A. Owens, D. Jayaraman, J. Lin, W. Yuan, J. Malik, E. H. Adelson, and
S. Levine. More than a feeling: Learning to grasp and regrasp using vision and touch.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(4):3300–3307, 2018.
S. Calinon. Robot learning with task-parameterized generative models. In A. Bicchi and
W. Burgard, editors, Proceedings of the 2018 International Symposium on Robotics Re-
search, pages 111–126, 2018.
S. Calinon, F. Guenter, and A. Billard. On learning, representing, and generalizing a task
in a humanoid robot. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part B
(Cybernetics), 37(2):286–298, 2007.
T. Cederborg, M. Li, A. Baranes, and P.-Y. Oudeyer. Incremental local online Gaussian
mixture regression for imitation learning of multiple tasks. In Proceedings of the 2010
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 267–274,
2010.
Y. Chebotar, K. Hausman, M. Zhang, G. Sukhatme, S. Schaal, and S. Levine. Combining
model-based and model-free updates for trajectory-centric reinforcement learning.
In
Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 703–711,
2017.
T. Chen, M. Kwiatkowska, A. Simaitis, and C. Wiltsche.
Synthesis for multi-objective
stochastic games: An application to autonomous urban driving. In Proceedings of the
2013 International Conference on Quantitative Evaluation of Systems, pages 322–337,
2013.
N. Chentanez, A. G. Barto, and S. P. Singh. Intrinsically motivated reinforcement learning.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 17, pages 1281–1288, 2005.
S. Chernova and M. Veloso. Interactive policy learning through conﬁdence-based autonomy.
Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 34:1–25, 2009.
S. Chiappa and J. Peters. Movement extraction by detecting dynamics switches and repe-
titions. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 23, pages 388–396, 2010.
S. Chinchali, S. C. Livingston, U. Topcu, J. W. Burdick, and R. M. Murray. Towards formal
synthesis of reactive controllers for dexterous robotic manipulation. In Proceedings of
the 2012 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 5183–5189,
2012.
S. Chitta, M. Piccoli, and J. Sturm. Tactile object class and internal state recognition
for mobile manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 2342–2348, 2010.
S. Chitta, J. Sturm, M. Piccoli, and W. Burgard. Tactile sensing for mobile manipulation.
IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 27(3):558–568, 2011.
C. Choi, W. Schwarting, J. DelPreto, and D. Rus. Learning object grasping for soft robot
hands. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(3):2370–2377, 2018.
50

===== PAGE 51 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
J. Choi and K.-E. Kim. Nonparametric Bayesian inverse reinforcement learning for multiple
reward functions. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 25, pages 305–
313, 2012.
S. Choudhury, Y. Hou, G. Lee, and S. S. Srinivasa. Hybrid DDP in clutter (CHDDP):
trajectory optimization for hybrid dynamical system in cluttered environments. CoRR,
abs/1710.05231, 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.05231.
Y. Chow, A. Tamar, S. Mannor, and M. Pavone. Risk-sensitive and robust decision-making:
a cvar optimization approach. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28,
pages 1522–1530, 2015.
C. Chuck, S. Chockchowwat, and S. Niekum. Hypothesis-driven skill discovery for hierar-
chical deep reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2020.
M. Ciocarlie, C. Goldfeder, and P. Allen. Dimensionality reduction for hand-independent
dexterous robotic grasping. In Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE/RSJ International Confer-
ence on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3270–3275, 2007.
M. Ciocarlie, K. Hsiao, E. G. Jones, S. Chitta, R. B. Rusu, and I. A. S¸ucan. Towards reliable
grasping and manipulation in household environments. In O. Khatib, V. Kumar, and
G. Sukhatme, editors, Proceedings of the 2014 International Symposium on Experimental
Robotics, pages 241–252, 2014.
L. Cobo, K. Subramanian, C. Isbell, A. Lanterman, and A. Thomaz. Abstraction from
demonstration for eﬃcient reinforcement learning in high-dimensional domains. Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, 216:103–128, 2014.
S. Coradeschi, A. Loutﬁ, and B. Wrede. A short review of symbol grounding in robotic and
intelligent systems. K¨unstliche Intelligenz, 27(2):129–136, 2013.
C. Cortes and V. Vapnik. Support-vector networks. Machine Learning, 20(3):273–297, 1995.
Y. Cui and S. Niekum. Active reward learning from critiques. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 6907–6914, 2018.
B. C. Da Silva, G. Baldassarre, G. D. Konidaris, and A. G. Barto. Learning parameter-
ized motor skills on a humanoid robot. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 5239–5244, 2014.
H. Dang and P. K. Allen. Robot learning of everyday object manipulations via human
demonstration. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems, pages 1284–1289, 2010.
H. Dang and P. K. Allen.
Learning grasp stability.
In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2392–2397, 2012.
H. Dang and P. K. Allen. Semantic grasping: Planning robotic grasps functionally suitable
for an object manipulation task. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2012.
51

===== PAGE 52 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
H. Dang and P. K. Allen. Grasp adjustment on novel objects using tactile experience from
similar local geometry. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 4007–4012, 2013.
C. Daniel, G. Neumann, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters. Learning sequential motor tasks. In
Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 2626–2632, 2013.
C. Daniel, G. Neumann, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters. Hierarchical relative entropy policy
search. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):3190–3239, 2016a.
C. Daniel, H. Van Hoof, J. Peters, and G. Neumann. Probabilistic inference for determining
options in reinforcement learning. Machine Learning, 104(2-3):337–357, 2016b.
L. Davis. Handbook of Genetic Algorithms. Chapman & Hall, 1991.
P.-T. De Boer, D. P. Kroese, S. Mannor, and R. Y. Rubinstein. A tutorial on the cross-
entropy method. Annals of Operations Research, 134(1):19–67, 2005.
T. J. Debus, P. E. Dupont, and R. D. Howe. Contact state estimation using multiple model
estimation and hidden Markov models. International Journal of Robotics Research, 23
(4-5):399–413, 2004.
M. Deisenroth and C. E. Rasmussen. PILCO: A model-based and data-eﬃcient approach to
policy search. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 465–472, 2011.
M. P. Deisenroth, D. Fox, and C. E. Rasmussen.
Gaussian processes for data-eﬃcient
learning in robotics and control. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence, 37(2):408–423, 2015.
K. Desingh, S. Lu, A. Opipari, and O. C. Jenkins. Factored pose estimation of articulated
objects using eﬃcient nonparametric belief propagation. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2018.
R. Detry, D. Kraft, O. Kroemer, L. Bodenhagen, J. Peters, N. Kr¨uger, and J. Piater.
Learning grasp aﬀordance densities. Paladyn, 2(1), 2011.
R. Detry, C. H. Ek, M. Madry, and D. Kragic. Learning a dictionary of prototypical grasp-
predicting parts from grasping experience. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 601–608, 2013.
R. Detry, J. Papon, and L. Matthies. Task-oriented grasping with semantic and geometric
scene understanding. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3266–3273, 2017.
C. Devin, P. Abbeel, T. Darrell, and S. Levine. Deep object-centric representations for
generalizable robot learning. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation, pages 7111–7118, 2018.
52

===== PAGE 53 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
C. Diuk, A. Cohen, and M. L. Littman.
An object-oriented representation for eﬃcient
reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 240–247, 2008.
C. Diuk, L. Li, and B. Leﬄer. The adaptive k-meteorologists problems and its application
to structure learning and feature selection in reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of
the 26th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 249–256, 2009.
M. Do, J. Schill, J. Ernesti, and T. Asfour. Learn to wipe: A case study of structural boot-
strapping from sensorimotor experience. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1858–1864, 2014.
A. Doerr, N. D. Ratliﬀ, J. Bohg, M. Toussaint, and S. Schaal. Direct loss minimization
inverse optimal control. In Robotics: Science and Systems XI, 2015.
M. R. Dogar, M. Cakmak, E. Ugur, and E. Sahin.
From primitive behaviors to goal-
directed behavior using aﬀordances. In Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 729–734, 2007.
S. Dragiev, M. Toussaint, and M. Gienger.
Uncertainty aware grasping and tactile ex-
ploration. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, pages 113–119, 2013.
Y. Duan, M. Andrychowicz, B. Stadie, O. J. Ho, J. Schneider, I. Sutskever, P. Abbeel, and
W. Zaremba. One-shot imitation learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 30, pages 1087–1098, 2017.
K. Dvijotham and E. Todorov. Inverse optimal control with linearly-solvable MDPs. In
Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 335–342,
2010.
A. Ecoﬀet, J. Huizinga, J. Lehman, K. O. Stanley, and J. Clune.
Go-explore: a new
approach for hard-exploration problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.10995, 2019.
A. Edsinger and C. C. Kemp. Autonomous detection and control of task relevant features.
In Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE International Conference on Development and Learning,
2006.
Y. Engel, P. Szabo, and D. Volkinshtein. Learning to control an octopus arm with Gaussian
process temporal diﬀerence methods.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 19, pages 347–354, 2006.
P. Englert and M. Toussaint. Combined optimization and reinforcement learning for ma-
nipulation skills. In Robotics: Science and Systems XII, 2016.
P. Englert and M. Toussaint. Learning manipulation skills from a single demonstration.
International Journal of Robotics Research, 37(1):137–154, 2018a.
P. Englert and M. Toussaint. Kinematic morphing networks for manipulation skill transfer.
In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems, pages 2517–2523, 2018b.
53

===== PAGE 54 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
P. Englert, N. Vien, and M. Toussaint. Inverse KKT: Learning cost functions of manipu-
lation tasks from demonstrations. International Journal of Robotics Research, 36(13-14):
1474–1488, 2017.
A. H. Fagg and M. A. Arbib. Modeling parietal-premotor interactions in primate control
of grasping. Neural Networks, 11(7):1277 – 1303, 1998.
G. E. Fainekos, A. Girard, H. Kress-Gazit, and G. J. Pappas.
Temporal logic motion
planning for dynamic robots. Automatica, 45(2):343–352, 2009.
Z. Fang, G. Bartels, and M. Beetz. Learning models for constraint-based motion parameter-
ization from interactive physics-based simulation. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 4005–4012, 2016.
V. Feinberg, A. Wan, I. Stoica, M. I. Jordan, J. E. Gonzalez, and S. Levine.
Model-
based value expansion for eﬃcient model-free reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.00101, 2018.
S. Fichtl, A. McManus, W. Mustafa, D. Kraft, N. Kr¨uger, and F. Guerin. Learning spa-
tial relationships from 3D vision using histograms.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 501–508, 2014.
C. Finn and S. Levine. Deep visual foresight for planning robot motion. In Proceedings of
the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2786–2793,
2017.
C. Finn, S. Levine, and P. Abbeel. Guided cost learning: Deep inverse optimal control
via policy optimization. In Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 49–58, 2016.
C. Finn, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine. Model-agnostic meta-learning for fast adaptation of
deep networks. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 1126–1135, 2017.
P. Fitzpatrick, A. Arsenio, and E. R. Torres-Jara. Reinforcing robot perception of multi-
modal events through repetition and redundancy and repetition and redundancy. Inter-
action Studies, 7(2):171–196, 2006.
P. R. Florence, L. Manuelli, and R. Tedrake. Dense object nets: Learning dense visual
object descriptors by and for robotic manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference
on Robot Learning, pages 373–385, 2018.
C. Florensa, D. Held, M. Wulfmeier, M. Zhang, and P. Abbeel. Reverse curriculum genera-
tion for reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of The 1st Conference on Robot Learning,
volume 78 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 482–495. PMLR, 2017.
J. Fu and U. Topcu.
Probably approximately correct MDP learning and control with
temporal logic constraints. arXiv preprint arXiv:1404.7073, 2014.
54

===== PAGE 55 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
J. Fu, S. Levine, and P. Abbeel.
One-shot learning of manipulation skills with online
dynamics adaptation and neural network priors. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 4019–4026, 2016.
J. Fu, K. Luo, and S. Levine. Learning robust rewards with adversarial inverse reinforcement
learning. In Proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions, 2017.
Y. Gao, L. A. Hendricks, K. J. Kuchenbecker, and T. Darrell. Deep learning for tactile
understanding from visual and haptic data. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 536–543, 2016.
C. Garcia Cifuentes, J. Issac, M. W¨uthrich, S. Schaal, and J. Bohg. Probabilistic articulated
real-time tracking for robot manipulation. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2(2):
577–584, 2017.
C. R. Garrett, T. Lozano-Perez, and L. P. Kaelbling. FFRob: Leveraging symbolic planning
for eﬃcient task and motion planning. International Journal of Robotics Research, 37(1):
104–136, 2018.
M. Ghavamzadeh, M. Petrik, and Y. Chow. Safe policy improvement by minimizing robust
baseline regret. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, pages 2298–
2306, 2016.
J. J. Gibson. The ecological approach to visual perception. Psychology Press, 2014.
A. Goil, M. Derry, and B. D. Argall. Using machine learning to blend human and robot
controls for assisted wheelchair navigation. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International
Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics, pages 1–6, 2013.
C. Goldfeder, M. Ciocarlie, J. Peretzman, H. Dang, and P. K. Allen. Data-driven grasping
with partial sensor data. In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE/RSJ International Conference
on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1278–1283, 2009.
W. Goo and S. Niekum. Learning multi-step robotic tasks from observation. In Proceedings
of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2019a.
W. Goo and S. Niekum. One-shot learning of multi-step tasks from observation via activity
localization in auxiliary video. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation, 2019b.
S. Griﬃth, V. Sukhoy, T. Wegter, and A. Stoytchev. Object categorization in the sink:
Learning behavior-grounded object categories with water. In ICRA 2012 Workshop on
Semantic Perception, Mapping, and Exploration, 2012.
D. Grollman and O. Jenkins. Incremental learning of subtasks from unsegmented demon-
stration. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, pages 261–266, 2010.
55

===== PAGE 56 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
S. Gu, T. Lillicrap, I. Sutskever, and S. Levine. Continuous deep Q-learning with model-
based acceleration.
In Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 2829–2838, 2016.
M. Gualtieri and R. Platt.
Viewpoint selection for grasp detection.
In Proceedings of
the 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages
258–264, 2017.
M. Gualtieri and R. Platt. Learning 6-DoF grasping and pick-place using attention focus.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, pages 477–486, 2018.
C. Guan, W. Vega-Brown, and N. Roy. Eﬃcient planning for near-optimal compliant manip-
ulation leveraging environmental contact. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 215–222, 2018.
P. Guler, Y. Bekiroglu, X. Gratal, K. Pauwels, and D. Kragic. What’s in the container?
classifying object contents from vision and touch. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3961–3968, 2014.
V. Gullapalli, J. A. Franklin, and H. Benbrahim. Acquiring robot skills via reinforcement
learning. IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 14(1):13–24, 1994.
A. Gupta, C. Eppner, S. Levine, and P. Abbeel. Learning dexterous manipulation for a
soft robotic hand from human demonstration. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 3786–3793, 2016.
A. Gupta, C. Devin, Y. Liu, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine. Learning invariant feature spaces
to transfer skills with reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 2017 International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2017.
A. Gupta, R. Mendonca, Y. Liu, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine. Meta-reinforcement learning of
structured exploration strategies. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
31, pages 5302–5311, 2018.
M. Gupta, J. M¨uller, and G. S. Sukhatme. Using manipulation primitives for object sorting
in cluttered environments. IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering,
12(2):608–614, 2015.
T. Haarnoja, A. Zhou, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine. Soft actor-critic: Oﬀ-policy maximum
entropy deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic actor. In Proceedings of the 35th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1861–1870, 2018.
D. Hadﬁeld-Menell, S. J. Russell, P. Abbeel, and A. Dragan. Cooperative inverse rein-
forcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, pages
3909–3917, 2016.
J. P. Hanna and P. Stone. Grounded action transformation for robot learning in simulation.
In Proceedings of the 21st AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 3834–3840,
2017.
56

===== PAGE 57 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
J. P. Hanna, P. Stone, and S. Niekum. Bootstrapping with models: Conﬁdence intervals for
oﬀ-policy evaluation. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Autonomous
Agents and Multiagent Systems, pages 538–546, 2017.
N. Hansen and A. Ostermeier. Completely derandomized self-adaptation in evolution strate-
gies. Evolutionary Computation, 9(2):159–195, 2001.
S. Hart. Intrinsically motivated hierarchical manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 3814–3819, 2008.
S. Hart. An intrinsic reward for aﬀordance exploration. In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE
International Conference on Development and Learning, pages 1–6, 2009.
K. Hauser.
Motion Planning for Legged and Humanoid Robots.
PhD thesis, Stanford
University, 2018.
K. Hausman, C. Bersch, D. Pangercic, S. Osentoski, Z.-C. Marton, and M. Beetz. Segmen-
tation of cluttered scenes through interactive perception. In ICRA 2012 Workshop on
Semantic Perception and Mapping for Knowledge-enabled Service Robotics, 2012.
K. Hausman, S. Niekum, S. Osentoski, and G. S. Sukhatme. Active articulation model
estimation through interactive perception. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 3305–3312, 2015.
K. Hausman, Y. Chebotar, S. Schaal, G. Sukhatme, and J. J. Lim. Multi-modal imitation
learning from unstructured demonstrations using generative adversarial nets. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 30, pages 1235–1245, 2017.
K. Hausman, J. T. Springenberg, Z. Wang, N. Heess, and M. Riedmiller.
Learning an
embedding space for transferable robot skills. In Proceedings of the 2018 International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.
B. Hayes and B. Scassellati.
Autonomously constructing hierarchical task networks for
planning and human-robot collaboration. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 5469–5476, 2016.
G. M. Hayes and J. Demiris. A robot controller using learning by imitation. University of
Edinburgh, Department of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 1994.
K. He, G. Gkioxari, P. Doll´ar, and R. Girshick. Mask R-CNN. In Proceedings of the 2017
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 2961–2969, 2017.
T. Hermans, J. M. Rehg, and A. Bobick. Guided pushing for object singulation. In Proceed-
ings of the 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems,
pages 4783–4790, 2012.
A. Herzog, P. Pastor, M. Kalakrishnan, L. Righetti, J. Bohg, T. Asfour, and S. Schaal.
Learning of grasp selection based on shape-templates. Autonomous Robots, 36(1-2):51–
65, 2014.
57

===== PAGE 58 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
I. Higgins, A. Pal, A. A. Rusu, L. Matthey, C. P. Burgess, A. Pritzel, M. Botvinick, C. Blun-
dell, and A. Lerchner. DARLA: Improving zero-shot transfer in reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1480–1490,
2017.
U. Hillenbrand and M. A. Roa. Transferring functional grasps through contact warping
and local replanning. In Proceedings of the 2012IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 2963–2970, 2012.
M. Hjelm, R. Detry, C. H. Ek, and D. Kragic. Representations for cross-task, cross-object
grasp transfer. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pages 5699–5704, 2014.
J. Ho and S. Ermon. Generative adversarial imitation learning. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 29, pages 4565–4573, 2016.
V. H¨ogman, M. Bj¨orkman, A. Maki, and D. Kragic. A sensorimotor learning framework
for object categorization. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems,
8(1):15–25, 2016.
J. Holtz, A. Guha, and J. Biswas. Interactive robot transition repair with SMT. In Pro-
ceedings of the 28th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 4905–
4911, 2018.
R. Houthooft, Y. Chen, P. Isola, B. Stadie, F. Wolski, O. J. Ho, and P. Abbeel. Evolved
policy gradients. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31, pages 5400–
5409, 2018.
G. E. Hovland and B. J. McCarragher. Hidden Markov models as a process monitor in
robotic assembly. International Journal of Robotics Research, 17(2):153–168, 1998.
K. Hsiao, L. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez. Grasping POMDPs. In Proceedings of the 2007
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 4685–4692, 2007.
K. Hsiao, L. P. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez. Task-driven tactile exploration. In Robotics:
Science and Systems VI, 2010.
D.-A. Huang, S. Nair, D. Xu, Y. Zhu, A. Garg, L. Fei-Fei, S. Savarese, and J. C. Niebles.
Neural task graphs: Generalizing to unseen tasks from a single video demonstration. In
Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2019.
H.-P. Huang and C.-C. Liang. Strategy-based decision making of a soccer robot system
using a real-time self-organizing fuzzy decision tree.
Fuzzy Sets and Systems, 127(1):
49–64, 2002.
X. Huang and J. Weng. Novelty and reinforcement learning in the value system of develop-
mental robots. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Epigenetic Robotics,
pages 47–55, 2002.
58

===== PAGE 59 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
P. Isola, J. J. Lim, and E. H. Adelson. Discovering states and transformations in image
collections. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 1383–1391, 2015.
J. Issac, M. W¨uthrich, C. Garcia Cifuentes, J. Bohg, S. Trimpe, and S. Schaal. Depth-
based object tracking using a robust gaussian ﬁlter. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 608–615, 2016.
A. Jain and C. C. Kemp. Improving robot manipulation with data-driven object-centric
models of everyday forces. Autonomous Robots, 35(2-3):143–159, 2013.
A. Jain and S. Niekum. Eﬃcient hierarchical robot motion planning under uncertainty
and hybrid dynamics. In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, pages
757–766, 2018.
A. Jain and S. Niekum. Learning hybrid object kinematics for eﬃcient hierarchical planning
under uncertainty. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2020.
L. Jamone, E. Ugur, A. Cangelosi, L. Fadiga, A. Bernardino, J. Piater, and J. Santos-Victor.
Aﬀordances in psychology, neuroscience, and robotics: A survey. IEEE Transactions on
Cognitive and Developmental Systems, 10(1):4–25, 2018.
E. Jang, S. Vijayanarasimhan, P. Pastor, J. Ibarz, and S. Levine. End-to-end learning of
semantic grasping. In Proceedings of The 1st Conference on Robot Learning, Proceedings
of Machine Learning Research, pages 119–132, 2017.
E. Jang, C. Devin, V. Vanhoucke, and S. Levine. Grasp2vec: Learning object represen-
tations from self-supervised grasping. In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot
Learning, volume 87 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 99–112, 2018.
M. Janner, S. Levine, W. T. Freeman, J. B. Tenenbaum, C. Finn, and J. Wu. Reasoning
about physical interactions with object-oriented prediction and planning. In Proceedings
of the 2019 International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019.
S. Javdani, M. Klingensmith, J. A. D. Bagnell, N. Pollard, and S. Srinivasa. Eﬃcient touch
based localization through submodularity. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1828–1835, 2013.
O. Jenkins and M. Matari´c. Performance-derived behavior vocabularies: data-driven acqui-
sition of skills from motion. International Journal of Humanoid Robotics, 1(2):237–288,
2004.
N. Jetchev, T. Lang, and M. Toussaint. Learning grounded relational symbols from con-
tinuous data for abstract reasoning. In ICRA 2013 Workshop on Autonomous Learning,
2013.
N. Jiang and L. Li. Doubly robust oﬀ-policy value evaluation for reinforcement learning. In
Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 652–661,
2016.
59

===== PAGE 60 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
N. Jiang, A. Kulesza, and S. Singh. Abstraction selection in model-based reinforcement
learning.
In Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 179–188, 2015.
Y. Jiang, M. Lim, C. Zheng, and A. Saxena. Learning to place new objects in a scene.
International Journal of Robotics Research, 31(9):1021–1043, 2012.
J. Juett and B. Kuipers. Learning to grasp by extending the peri-personal space graph. In
Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems, pages 8695–8700, 2018.
P. Jund, A. Eitel, N. Abdo, and W. Burgard. Optimization beyond the convolution: Gen-
eralizing spatial relations with end-to-end metric learning. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1–7, 2018.
L. P. Kaelbling, M. L. Littman, and A. R. Cassandra. Planning and acting in partially
observable stochastic domains. Artiﬁcial intelligence, 101(1-2):99–134, 1998.
G. Kahn, P. Sujan, S. Patil, S. Bopardikar, J. Ryde, K. Goldberg, and P. Abbeel. Active ex-
ploration using trajectory optimization for robotic grasping in the presence of occlusions.
In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 4783–4790, 2015.
D. Kalashnikov, A. Irpan, P. Pastor, J. Ibarz, A. Herzog, E. Jang, D. Quillen, E. Holly,
M. Kalakrishnan, V. Vanhoucke, and S. Levine. Scalable deep reinforcement learning
for vision-based robotic manipulation. In Proceedings of The 2nd Conference on Robot
Learning, volume 87 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 651–673, 2018.
P. Kamalaruban, R. Devidze, V. Cevher, and A. Singla. Interactive teaching algorithms for
inverse reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.11867, 2019.
K. Kansky, T. Silver, D. A. M´ely, M. Eldawy, M. L´azaro-Gredilla, X. Lou, N. Dorfman,
S. Sidor, S. Phoenix, and D. George. Schema networks: Zero-shot transfer with a genera-
tive causal model of intuitive physics. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference
on Machine Learning, pages 1809–1818, 2017.
D. Kappler, P. Pastor, M. Kalakrishnan, M. W¨uthrich, and S. Schaal. Data-driven online
decision making for autonomous manipulation. In Robotics: Science and Systems XI,
2015.
D. Katz and O. Brock. A factorization approach to manipulation in unstructured environ-
ments. In C. Pradalier, R. Siegwart, and G. Hirzinger, editors, Proceedings of the 2011
International Symposium on Robotics Research, pages 285–300, 2011.
D. Katz, A. Orthey, and O. Brock. Interactive perception of articulated objects. In Proceed-
ings of the 2010 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics, pages 1–15, 2010.
L. Kaul, S. Ottenhaus, P. Weiner, and T. Asfour. The sense of surface orientation - a new
sensor modality for humanoid robots. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE-RAS International
Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages 820–825, 2016.
60

===== PAGE 61 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
J. Kenney, T. Buckley, and O. Brock. Interactive segmentation for manipulation in un-
structured environments. In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 1343–1348, 2009.
K. Kim, H. Lee, J. Park, and M. Yang. Robotic contamination cleaning system. In Proceed-
ings of the 2002 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems,
volume 2, pages 1874–1879, 2002.
M. Klingensmith, M. Hermann, and S. Srinivasa. Object modeling and recognition from
sparse, noisy data via voxel depth carving.
In Proceedings of the 2014 International
Symposium on Experimental Robotics, June 2014.
R. A. Knepper, S. Tellex, A. Li, N. Roy, and D. Rus. Recovering from failure by asking for
help. Autonomous Robots, 39(3):347–362, 2015.
W. B. Knox, P. Stone, and C. Breazeal. Training a robot via human feedback: A case study.
In Proceedings of the 2013 International Conference on Social Robotics, pages 460–470,
2013.
J. Kober and J. R. Peters. Policy search for motor primitives in robotics. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 22, pages 849–856, 2009.
J. Kober, E. Oztop, and J. Peters. Reinforcement learning to adjust robot movements to
new situations. In Proceedings of the 22nd International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, pages 2650–2655, 2011.
G. Konidaris. Constructing abstraction hierarchies using a skill-symbol loop. In Proceedings
of the 25th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1648–1654,
2016.
G. Konidaris and A. Barto. Eﬃcient skill learning using abstraction selection. In Proceedings
of the 21st International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1107–1112,
July 2009a.
G. Konidaris and A. G. Barto. Building portable options: Skill transfer in reinforcement
learning. In Proceedings of the 20th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelli-
gence, pages 895–900, 2007.
G. Konidaris and A. G. Barto. Skill discovery in continuous reinforcement learning domains
using skill chaining. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 22, pages
1015–1023, 2009b.
G. Konidaris, S. Kuindersma, R. Grupen, and A. Barto.
Autonomous skill acquisition
on a mobile manipulator. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, pages 1468–1473, 2011a.
G. Konidaris, S. Osentoski, and P. S. Thomas. Value function approximation in reinforce-
ment learning using the Fourier basis. In Proceedings of the 25th AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 380–385, 2011b.
61

===== PAGE 62 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
G. Konidaris, S. Kuindersma, R. Grupen, and A. Barto. Robot learning from demonstration
by constructing skill trees. International Journal of Robotics Research, 31(3):360–375,
2012.
G. Konidaris, L. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez. Symbol acquisition for probabilistic high-
level planning. In Proceedings of the 24th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, pages 3619–3627, 2015.
G. Konidaris, L. P. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez.
From skills to symbols: Learning
symbolic representations for abstract high-level planning. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Research, 61:215–289, 2018.
M. Kopicki, R. Detry, M. Adjigble, R. Stolkin, A. Leonardis, and J. L. Wyatt. One-shot
learning and generation of dexterous grasps for novel objects. International Journal of
Robotics Research, 35(8):959–976, 2016.
M. Kopicki, S. Zurek, R. Stolkin, T. Moerwald, and J. L. Wyatt. Learning modular and
transferable forward models of the motions of push manipulated objects. Autonomous
Robots, 41(5):1061–1082, 2017.
P. Kormushev, S. Calinon, and D. G. Caldwell. Imitation learning of positional and force
skills demonstrated via kinesthetic teaching and haptic input. Advanced Robotics, 25(5):
581–603, 2011.
M. C. Koval, M. Klingensmith, S. S. Srinivasa, N. Pollard, and M. Kaess. The manifold
particle ﬁlter for state estimation on high-dimensional implicit manifolds. In Proceedings
of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 4673–
4680, 2017.
D. Kraft, N. Pugeault, E. Baseski, M. Popovic, D. Kragic, S. Kalkan, F. W¨org¨otter, and
N. Kr¨uger. Birth of the object: Detection of objectness and extraction of object shape
through object-action complexes. International Journal of Humanoid Robotics, 5(2):247–
265, 2008.
S. Krishnan, A. Garg, R. Liaw, B. Thananjeyan, L. Miller, F. T. Pokorny, and K. Goldberg.
SWIRL: A sequential windowed inverse reinforcement learning algorithm for robot tasks
with delayed rewards. International Journal of Robotics Research, 38(2-3):126–145, 2019.
A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton. Imagenet classiﬁcation with deep convolu-
tional neural networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 25, pages
1097–1105, 2012.
O. Kroemer and J. Peters. Predicting object interactions from contact distributions. In
Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems, pages 3361–3367, 2014.
O. Kroemer and G. Sukhatme. Meta-level priors for learning manipulation skills with sparse
features. In D. Kuli´c, Y. Nakamura, O. Khatib, and G. Venture, editors, Proceedings of
the 2017 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics, pages 211–222, 2017.
62

===== PAGE 63 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
O. Kroemer and G. S. Sukhatme. Learning spatial preconditions of manipulation skills
using random forests. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE-RAS International Conference on
Humanoid Robots, pages 676–683, 2016.
O. Kroemer, E. Ugur, E. Oztop, and J. Peters. A kernel-based approach to direct action
perception. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, pages 2605–2610, 2012.
O. Kroemer, H. van Hoof, G. Neumann, and J. Peters.
Learning to predict phases of
manipulation tasks as hidden states.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 4009–4014, 2014.
O. Kroemer, C. Daniel, G. Neumann, H. van Hoof, and J. Peters. Towards learning hi-
erarchical skills for multi-phase manipulation tasks. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1503–1510, 2015.
O. Kroemer, S. Leischnig, S. Luettgen, and J. Peters. A kernel-based approach to learning
contact distributions for robot manipulation tasks. Autonomous Robots, 42(3):581–600,
2018.
O. B. Kroemer, R. Detry, J. Piater, and J. Peters. Combining active learning and reactive
control for robot grasping. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 59(9):1105–1116, 2010.
doi: 10.1016/j.robot.2010.06.001.
N. Kr¨uger, C. Geib, J. Piater, R. Petrick, M. Steedman, F. W¨org¨otter, A. Ude, T. Asfour,
D. Kraft, D. Omrˇcen, A. Agostini, and R. Dillmann. Object-action complexes: Grounded
abstractions of sensory-motor processes. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 59(10):740
– 757, 2011. ISSN 0921-8890.
J. Kulick, M. Toussaint, T. Lang, and M. Lopes.
Active learning for teaching a robot
grounded relational symbols. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Joint Conference
on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1451–1457, 2013.
J. Kulick, S. Otte, and M. Toussaint. Active exploration of joint dependency structures.
In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 2598–2604, 2015.
V. Kumar, E. Todorov, and S. Levine. Optimal control with learned local models: Applica-
tion to dexterous manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation, pages 378–383, 2016.
V. Kumar, S. Ha, and C. Liu. Expanding motor skills using relay networks. In Proceedings
of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, pages 744–756, 2018.
A. G. Kupcsik, M. P. Deisenroth, J. Peters, G. Neumann, et al. Data-eﬃcient generalization
of robot skills with contextual policy search. In Proceedings of the 27th AAAI Conference
on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1401–1407, 2013.
63

===== PAGE 64 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
T. Kurutach, A. Tamar, G. Yang, S. J. Russell, and P. Abbeel. Learning plannable repre-
sentations with causal InfoGAN. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
31, pages 8733–8744, 2018.
T. Lang, M. Toussaint, and K. Kersting. Exploration in relational domains for model-based
reinforcement learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 13(1):3725–3768, 2012.
G. Lee, Z. Marinho, A. M. Johnson, G. J. Gordon, S. S. Srinivasa, and M. T. Mason.
Unsupervised learning for nonlinear piecewise smooth hybrid systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1710.00440, 2017.
M. A. Lee, Y. Zhu, K. Srinivasan, P. Shah, S. Savarese, L. Fei-Fei, A. Garg, and J. Bohg.
Making sense of vision and touch: Self-supervised learning of multimodal representations
for contact-rich tasks.
In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, 2019.
E. D. Lello, M. Klotzb¨ucher, T. D. Laet, and H. Bruyninckx. Bayesian time-series models
for continuous fault detection and recognition in industrial robotic tasks. In Proceedings
of the 2013 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages
5827–5833, 2013.
I. Lenz, R. A. Knepper, and A. Saxena. Deepmpc: Learning deep latent features for model
predictive control. In Robotics: Science and Systems XI, 2015a.
I. Lenz, H. Lee, and A. Saxena. Deep learning for detecting robotic grasps. International
Journal of Robotics Research, 34(4-5):705–724, 2015b.
S. Levine and V. Koltun. Guided policy search. In Proceedings of the 30th International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1–9, 2013.
S. Levine, Z. Popovic, and V. Koltun. Nonlinear inverse reinforcement learning with gaus-
sian processes. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 24, pages 19–27,
2011.
S. Levine, N. Wagener, and P. Abbeel. Learning contact-rich manipulation skills with guided
policy search. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, pages 156–163, 2015.
S. Levine, C. Finn, T. Darrell, and P. Abbeel. End-to-end training of deep visuomotor
policies. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 17(1):1334–1373, 2016.
A. Levy, G. Konidaris, R. Platt, and K. Saenko. Learning multi-level hierarchies with hind-
sight. In Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Learning Representations,
2019.
Y. Li, C. Chen, and P. K. Allen. Recognition of deformable object category and pose.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 5558–5564, 2014.
64

===== PAGE 65 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Y. Li, Y. Yue, D. Xu, E. Grinspun, and P. K. Allen. Folding deformable objects using
predictive simulation and trajectory optimization. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 6000–6006, 2015.
Y. Li, X. Hu, D. Xu, Y. Yue, E. Grinspun, and P. K. Allen. Multi-sensor surface analysis for
robotic ironing. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pages 5670–5676, 2016.
Y. Li, Y. Wang, Y. Yue, D. Xu, M. Case, S. Chang, E. Grinspun, and P. K. Allen. Model-
driven feedforward prediction for manipulation of deformable objects. IEEE Transactions
on Automation Science and Engineering, 15(4):1621–1638, 2018.
Y. Li, J. Wu, R. Tedrake, J. B. Tenenbaum, and A. Torralba. Learning particle dynamics
for manipulating rigid bodies, deformable objects, and ﬂuids. In Proceedings of the 2018
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018.
T. P. Lillicrap, J. J. Hunt, A. Pritzel, N. Heess, T. Erez, Y. Tassa, D. Silver, and D. Wierstra.
Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1509.02971,
2015.
R. Lioutikov, G. Neumann, G. Maeda, and J. Peters. Probabilistic segmentation applied
to an assembly task. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE-RAS International Conference on
Humanoid Robots, pages 533–540, 2015.
R. Lioutikov, G. Maeda, F. Veiga, K. Kersting, and J. Peters. Inducing probabilistic context-
free grammars for the sequencing of movement primitives. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1–8, 2018.
M. L. Littman and R. S. Sutton. Predictive representations of state. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 14, pages 1555–1561, 2002.
M. L. Littman, U. Topcu, J. Fu, C. Isbell, M. Wen, and J. MacGlashan. Environment-
independent task speciﬁcations via GLTL. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.04341, 2017.
Y. Liu, A. Gupta, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine.
Imitation from observation: Learning to
imitate behaviors from raw video via context translation. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1118–1125. IEEE,
2018.
M. Lopes, F. Melo, and L. Montesano. Active learning for reward estimation in inverse
reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 2009 Joint European Conference on Machine
Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases, pages 31–46, 2009.
Q. Lu and T. Hermans. Modeling grasp type improves learning-based grasp planning. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 4(2):784–791, 2019.
C. Lynch, M. Khansari, T. Xiao, V. Kumar, J. Tompson, S. Levine, and P. Sermanet.
Learning latent plans from play. In Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 1113–1132, 2019.
65

===== PAGE 66 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
M. Madry, L. Bo, D. Kragic, and D. Fox. ST-HMP: Unsupervised spatio-temporal feature
learning for tactile data. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 2262–2269, 2014.
J. Mahler, F. T. Pokorny, B. Hou, M. Roderick, M. Laskey, M. Aubry, K. Kohlhoﬀ,
T. Kr¨oger, J. Kuﬀner, and K. Goldberg. Dex-Net 1.0: A cloud-based network of 3D ob-
jects for robust grasp planning using a multi-armed bandit model with correlated rewards.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 1957–1964, 2016.
J. Mahler, J. Liang, S. Niyaz, M. Laskey, R. Doan, X. Liu, J. A. Ojea, and K. Goldberg.
Dex-net 2.0: Deep learning to plan robust grasps with synthetic point clouds and analytic
grasp metrics. In Robotics: Science and Systems XIII, 2017.
S. Mannor, R. Y. Rubinstein, and Y. Gat. The cross entropy method for fast policy search.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 512–519,
2003.
R. Mart´ın-Mart´ın, S. H¨ofer, and O. Brock. An integrated approach to visual perception
of articulated objects.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 5091 – 5097, 2016.
R. Martinez-Cantin, N. de Freitas, A. Doucet, and J. A. Castellanos. Active policy learning
for robot planning and exploration under uncertainty. In Robotics: Science and Systems
III, pages 321–328, 2007.
M. T. Mason. Compliance and force control for computer controlled manipulators. IEEE
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 11(6):418–432, 1981.
F. Meier, E. Theodorou, F. Stulp, and S. Schaal. Movement segmentation using a primitive
library. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, pages 3407–3412, 2011.
B. Michini and J. How. Bayesian nonparametric inverse reinforcement learning. In Machine
Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases, pages 148–163, 2012.
H. Min, C. Yi, R. Luo, J. Zhu, and S. Bi. Aﬀordance research in developmental robotics:
A survey. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems, 8(4):237–255,
2016.
D. K. Misra, J. Sung, K. Lee, and A. Saxena. Tell me Dave: Context sensitive grounding of
natural language to mobile manipulation instructions. In Robotics: Science and Systems
X, 2014.
V. Mnih, K. Kavukcuoglu, D. Silver, A. A. Rusu, J. Veness, M. G. Bellemare, A. Graves,
M. Riedmiller, A. K. Fidjeland, G. Ostrovski, et al. Human-level control through deep
reinforcement learning. Nature, 518(7540):529–533, 2015.
66

===== PAGE 67 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
V. Mnih, A. P. Badia, M. Mirza, A. Graves, T. Lillicrap, T. Harley, D. Silver, and
K. Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In Proceed-
ings of the 33rd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1928–1937, 2016.
S. Mohamed and D. J. Rezende.
Variational information maximisation for intrinsically
motivated reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
28, pages 2125–2133, 2015.
L. Montesano and M. Lopes. Active learning of visual descriptors for grasping using non-
parametric smoothed beta distributions. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 60(3):452–
462, 2012.
L. Montesano, M. Lopes, A. Bernardino, and J. Santos-Victor. Learning object aﬀordances:
from sensory–motor coordination to imitation. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 24(1):
15–26, 2008.
P. Moylan and B. Anderson. Nonlinear regulator theory and an inverse optimal control
problem. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 18(5):460–465, 1973.
C. Mueller, J. Venicx, and B. Hayes. Robust robot learning from demonstration and skill
repair using conceptual constraints. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 6029–6036, 2018.
J. Mugan and B. Kuipers. Autonomous learning of high-level states and actions in continu-
ous environments. IEEE Transactions on Autonomous Mental Development, 4(1):70–86,
2012.
A. Myers, C. L. Teo, C. Ferm¨uller, and Y. Aloimonos. Aﬀordance detection of tool parts
from geometric features. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 1374–1381, 2015.
O. Nachum, S. Gu, H. Lee, and S. Levine. Data-eﬃcient hierarchical reinforcement learning.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31, pages 3303–3313, 2018.
S. Narvekar, J. Sinapov, M. Leonetti, and P. Stone. Source task creation for curriculum
learning. In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and
Multiagent Systems, pages 566–574, 2016.
A. Y. Ng, D. Harada, and S. Russell.
Policy invariance under reward transformations:
Theory and application to reward shaping.
In Proceedings of the 16th International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 278–287, 1999.
A. Y. Ng, S. J. Russell, et al. Algorithms for inverse reinforcement learning. In Proceedings
of the 17th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 663–670, 2000.
H. Nguyen and C. C. Kemp. Autonomously learning to visually detect where manipulation
will succeed. Autonomous Robots, 36(1-2):137–152, 2014.
D. Nguyen-Tuong and J. Peters. Incremental online sparsiﬁcation for model learning in
real-time robot control. Neurocomputing, 74(11):1859 – 1867, 2011. ISSN 0925-2312.
67

===== PAGE 68 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
A. Nichol, J. Achiam, and J. Schulman. On ﬁrst-order meta-learning algorithms. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1803.02999, 2018.
S. Niekum and A. G. Barto. Clustering via Dirichlet process mixture models for portable
skill discovery. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 24, pages 1818–
1826, 2011.
S. Niekum, A. G. Barto, and L. Spector. Genetic programming for reward function search.
IEEE Transactions on Autonomous Mental Development, 2(2):83–90, 2010.
S. Niekum, S. Osentoski, C. G. Atkeson, and A. G. Barto. Online Bayesian changepoint
detection for articulated motion models. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1468–1475, 2015a.
S. Niekum, S. Osentoski, G. Konidaris, S. Chitta, B. Marthi, and A. G. Barto. Learning
grounded ﬁnite-state representations from unstructured demonstrations. International
Journal of Robotics Research, 34(2):131–157, 2015b.
S. Otte, J. Kulick, M. Toussaint, and O. Brock.
Entropy-based strategies for physical
exploration of the environment’s degrees of freedom. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 615–622, 2014.
P.-Y. Oudeyer and F. Kaplan. What is intrinsic motivation? a typology of computational
approaches. Frontiers in neurorobotics, 1(6):1 – 14, 2009.
E. Oztop, N. S. Bradley, and M. A. Arbib. Infant grasp learning: a computational model.
Experimental Brain Research, 158(4):480–503, Oct 2004.
S. Padakandla, S. Bhatnagar, et al. Reinforcement learning in non-stationary environments.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.03970, 2019.
A. Paraschos, C. Daniel, J. R. Peters, and G. Neumann. Probabilistic movement primitives.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26, pages 2616–2624, 2013.
D. Park, Z. Erickson, T. Bhattacharjee, and C. C. Kemp. Multimodal execution monitoring
for anomaly detection during robot manipulation.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 407–414, 2016.
P. Pastor, H. Hoﬀmann, T. Asfour, and S. Schaal. Learning and generalization of motor
skills by learning from demonstration. In Proceedings of the 2009 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 763–768, 2009.
P. Pastor, M. Kalakrishnan, S. Chitta, E. Theodorou, and S. Schaal. Skill learning and
task outcome prediction for manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 3828–3834, 2011a.
P. Pastor, L. Righetti, M. Kalakrishnan, and S. Schaal. Online movement adaptation based
on previous sensor experiences.
In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 365–371, 2011b.
68

===== PAGE 69 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
P. Pastor, M. Kalakrishnan, L. Righetti, and S. Schaal. Towards associative skill memories.
In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots,
pages 309–315, 2012.
D. Pathak, Y. Shentu, D. Chen, P. Agrawal, T. Darrell, S. Levine, and J. Malik. Learning
instance segmentation by interaction. In CVPR 2018 Workshop on Benchmarks for Deep
Learning in Robotic Vision, 2018.
D. Pathak, D. Gandhi, and A. Gupta. Self-supervised exploration via disagreement. In
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning, 2019.
X. B. Peng, M. Andrychowicz, W. Zaremba, and P. Abbeel. Sim-to-real transfer of robotic
control with dynamics randomization. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2018.
J. Peters and S. Schaal. Natural actor-critic. Neurocomputing, 71(7-9):1180–1190, 2008.
J. Peters, K. M¨ulling, and Y. Altun. Relative entropy policy search. In Proceedings of the
24th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1607–1612, 2010.
A. Petrovskaya and O. Khatib. Global localization of objects via touch. IEEE Transactions
on Robotics, 27(3):569–585, 2011.
P. Piacenza, W. Dang, E. Hannigan, J. Espinal, I. Hussain, I. Kymissis, and M. T. Ciocar-
lie. Accurate contact localization and indentation depth prediction with an optics-based
tactile sensor. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation, pages 959–965, 2017.
S. Pillai, M. R. Walter, and S. Teller. Learning articulated motions from visual demonstra-
tions. In Robotics: Science and Systems X, Berkeley, CA, 2014.
L. Pinto and A. Gupta. Supersizing self-supervision: Learning to grasp from 50k tries and
700 robot hours. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pages 3406–3413, 2016.
L. Pinto, D. Gandhi, Y. Han, Y.-L. Park, and A. Gupta. The curious robot: Learning visual
representations via physical interactions. In Proceedings of the 2016 European Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 3–18. Springer, 2016.
R. Platt, R. Tedrake, L. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez. Belief space planning assuming
maximum likelihood observations. In Robotics: Science and Systems VI, 2010.
R. Platt, L. Kaelbling, T. Lozano-Perez, and R. Tedrake. Eﬃcient planning in non-Gaussian
belief spaces and its application to robot grasping. In Proceedings of the 2011 Interna-
tional Symposium on Robotics Research, pages 253–269, 2011.
R. Platt, C. Kohler, and M. Gualtieri. Deictic image mapping: An abstraction for learning
pose invariant manipulation policies. In Proceedings of the 33rd AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 2019.
69

===== PAGE 70 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
V. Pong, S. Gu, M. Dalal, and S. Levine. Temporal diﬀerence models: Model-free deep RL
for model-based control. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2018.
J. R. Quinlan. Induction of decision trees. Machine Learning, 1(1):81–106, 1986.
D. Ramachandran and E. Amir.
Bayesian inverse reinforcement learning.
Urbana, 51
(61801):1–4, 2007.
M. A. Rana, M. Mukadam, S. R. Ahmadzadeh, S. Chernova, and B. Boots. Skill general-
ization via inference-based planning. In RSS 2017 Workshop on Mathematical Models,
Algorithms, and Human-Robot Interaction, 2017.
P. Ranchod, B. Rosman, and G. Konidaris.
Nonparametric bayesian reward segmenta-
tion for skill discovery using inverse reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 2015
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 471–477,
2015.
C. E. Rasmussen. Gaussian processes in machine learning. In Advanced Lectures on Machine
Learning, pages 63–71. Springer, 2004.
N. D. Ratliﬀ, J. Issac, D. Kappler, S. Birchﬁeld, and D. Fox. Riemannian motion policies.
CoRR, abs/1801.02854, 2018.
T. Ren, Y. Dong, D. Wu, and K. Chen. Learning-Based Variable Compliance Control for
Robotic Assembly. Journal of Mechanisms and Robotics, 10(6), 09 2018.
L. Riano and T. McGinnity. Automatically composing and parameterizing skills by evolving
ﬁnite state automata. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 60(4):639–650, 2012.
M. Riedmiller, R. Hafner, T. Lampe, M. Neunert, J. Degrave, T. Van de Wiele, V. Mnih,
N. Heess, and J. T. Springenberg. Learning by playing-solving sparse reward tasks from
scratch. In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
4344–4353, 2018.
A. Rodriguez, D. Bourne, M. Mason, G. F. Rossano, and J. Wang.
Failure detection
in assembly: Force signature analysis. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International
Conference on Automation Science and Engineering, pages 210–215, 2010.
D. Rodriguez and S. Behnke.
Transferring category-based functional grasping skills by
latent space non-rigid registration. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3(3):2662–
2669, 2018.
B. Rosman and S. Ramamoorthy. Learning spatial relationships between objects. Interna-
tional Journal of Robotics Research, 30(11):1328–1342, 2011.
S. Ross, G. Gordon, and D. Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and structured pre-
diction to no-regret online learning. In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference
on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 627–635, 2011.
70

===== PAGE 71 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
S. J. Russell and P. Norvig. Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Pearson Education,
2 edition, 2003.
A. A. Rusu, N. C. Rabinowitz, G. Desjardins, H. Soyer, J. Kirkpatrick, K. Kavukcuoglu,
R.
Pascanu,
and
R.
Hadsell.
Progressive
neural
networks.
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:1606.04671, 2016.
D. Sadigh, E. S. Kim, S. Coogan, S. S. Sastry, and S. A. Seshia. A learning based approach
to control synthesis of Markov decision processes for linear temporal logic speciﬁcations.
In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Conference on Decision and Control, pages 1091–1096,
2014.
E. Sahin, M. Cakmak, M. R. Dogar, E. Ugur, and G. Ucoluk. To aﬀord or not to aﬀord:
A new formalization of aﬀordances toward aﬀordance-based robot control. Adaptive Be-
havior, 15(4):447–472, 2007.
A. Sanchez-Gonzalez, N. Heess, J. T. Springenberg, J. Merel, M. Riedmiller, R. Hadsell, and
P. Battaglia. Graph networks as learnable physics engines for inference and control. In
Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 4470–4479,
2018.
T. D. Sanger. Neural network learning control of robot manipulators using gradually in-
creasing task diﬃculty. IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation, 10(3):323–333,
1994.
A. Saran, B. Lakic, S. Majumdar, J. Hess, and S. Niekum. Viewpoint selection for visual
failure detection.
In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 5437–5444, 2017.
A. Saxena, J. Driemeyer, J. Kearns, C. Osondu, and A. Y. Ng. Learning to grasp novel
objects using vision. In O. Khatib, V. Kumar, and D. Rus, editors, Proceedings of the
2008 International Symposium on Experimental Robotics, pages 33–42, 2008.
S. Schaal. Is imitation learning the route to humanoid robots? Trends in Cognitive Sciences,
3(6):233–242, 1999.
S. Schaal. Dynamic movement primitives—a framework for motor control in humans and hu-
manoid robotics. In Adaptive Motion of Animals and Machines, pages 261–280. Springer,
2006.
S. Schaal, J. Peters, J. Nakanishi, and A. Ijspeert.
Learning movement primitives.
In
Proceedings of the 2005 International Symposium on Robotics Research, pages 561–572.
Springer, 2005.
T. Schaul, D. Horgan, K. Gregor, and D. Silver. Universal value function approximators. In
Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1312–1320,
2015.
C. Schenck and D. Fox. Perceiving and reasoning about liquids using fully convolutional
networks. International Journal of Robotics Research, 37(4-5):452–471, 2018a.
71

===== PAGE 72 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
C. Schenck and D. Fox. SPNets: Diﬀerentiable ﬂuid dynamics for deep neural networks.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, volume 87 of Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pages 317–335, 2018b.
C. Schenck and A. Stoytchev. The object pairing and matching task: Toward Montessori
tests for robots. In Humanoids 2012 Workshop on Developmental Robotics, 2012.
C. Schenck, J. Sinapov, and A. Stoytchev.
Which object comes next?
grounded order
completion by a humanoid robot. Cybernetics and Information Technologies, 12(3):5–16,
2012.
C. Schenck, J. Sinapov, D. Johnston, and A. Stoytchev. Which object ﬁts best? Solving
matrix completion tasks with a humanoid robot. IEEE Transactions on Autonomous
Mental Development, 6(3):226–240, 2014.
C. Schenck, J. Tompson, S. Levine, and D. Fox. Learning robotic manipulation of granular
media. In Proceedings of the 1st Conference on Robot Learning, pages 239–248, 2017.
C. Schlagenhauf, D. Bauer, K. Chang, J. P. King, D. Moro, S. Coros, and N. Pollard.
Control of tendon-driven soft foam robot hands. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE-RAS
International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages 1–7, 2018.
T. Schmidt, R. A. Newcombe, and D. Fox. DART: dense articulated real-time tracking with
consumer depth cameras. Autonomous Robots, 39(3):239–258, 2015.
J. Scholz and M. Stilman. Combining motion planning and optimization for ﬂexible robot
manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Hu-
manoid Robots, pages 80–85, 2010.
J. Scholz, M. Levihn, C. Isbell, and D. Wingate. A physics-based model prior for object-
oriented MDPs. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 1089–1097, 2014.
J. Schulman, J. Ho, C. Lee, and P. Abbeel. Learning from demonstrations through the use
of non-rigid registration. In Proceedings of the 2013 International Symposium on Robotics
Research, pages 339–354. Springer, 2013.
J. Schulman, S. Levine, P. Abbeel, M. Jordan, and P. Moritz. Trust region policy optimiza-
tion. In Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
1889–1897, 2015.
J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov. Proximal policy opti-
mization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
M. Schwarz, A. Milan, A. S. Periyasamy, and S. Behnke. RGB-D object detection and
semantic segmentation for autonomous manipulation in clutter. International Journal of
Robotics Research, 37(4-5):437–451, 2018.
D. Seita, N. Jamali, M. Laskey, R. Berenstein, A. K. Tanwani, P. Baskaran, S. Iba, J. Canny,
and K. Goldberg.
Robot bed-making: Deep transfer learning using depth sensing of
deformable fabric. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.09810, 2018.
72

===== PAGE 73 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
P. Sermanet, C. Lynch, Y. Chebotar, J. Hsu, E. Jang, S. Schaal, S. Levine, and G. Brain.
Time-contrastive networks: Self-supervised learning from video. In Proceedings of the
2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1134–1141,
2018.
S. C. Shapiro and H. O. Ismail. Anchoring in a grounded layered architecture with integrated
reasoning. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 43(2):97 – 108, 2003.
T. Sim´eon, J.-P. Laumond, J. Cort´es, and A. Sahbani. Manipulation planning with proba-
bilistic roadmaps. International Journal of Robotics Research, 23(7-8):729–746, 2004.
J. Sinapov, T. Bergquist, C. Schenck, U. Ohiri, S. Griﬃth, and A. Stoytchev. Interactive
object recognition using proprioceptive and auditory feedback. International Journal of
Robotics Research, 30(10):1250–1262, 2011a.
J. Sinapov, V. Sukhoy, R. Sahai, and A. Stoytchev. Vibrotactile recognition and catego-
rization of surfaces by a humanoid robot. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 27(3):488–497,
2011b.
J. Sinapov, C. Schenck, K. Staley, V. Sukhoy, and A. Stoytchev.
Grounding semantic
categories in behavioral interactions: Experiments with 100 objects. Robotics and Au-
tonomous Systems, 62(5):632–645, 2014.
S. Singh, M. R. James, and M. R. Rudary. Predictive state representations: A new theory
for modeling dynamical systems. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on
Uncertainty in Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 512–519, 2004.
D. Song, C. H. Ek, K. Huebner, and D. Kragic. Multivariate discretization for Bayesian net-
work structure learning in robot grasping. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1944–1950, 2011.
J. Sorg, R. L. Lewis, and S. P. Singh. Reward design via online gradient ascent. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 23, pages 2190–2198, 2010a.
J. Sorg, S. P. Singh, and R. L. Lewis. Internal rewards mitigate agent boundedness. In
Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1007–1014,
2010b.
M. Spong, S. Hutchinson, and M. Vidyasagar. Robot modeling and control. Wiley, 2005.
A. Srinivas, A. Jabri, P. Abbeel, S. Levine, and C. Finn. Universal planning networks:
Learning generalizable representations for visuomotor control. In Proceedings of the 35th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 4732–4741, 2018.
B. C. Stadie, P. Abbeel, and I. Sutskever. Third-person imitation learning. In Proceedings
of the 2017 International Conference on Learning Representations, 2017.
K. O. Stanley, D. B. D’Ambrosio, and J. Gauci. A hypercube-based encoding for evolving
large-scale neural networks. Artiﬁcial Life, 15(2):185–212, 2009.
73

===== PAGE 74 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
M. Stilman, K. Nishiwaki, and S. Kagami. Learning object models for whole body manip-
ulation. In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid
Robots, pages 174–179, 2008.
J. A. Stork, C. H. Ek, Y. Bekiroglu, and D. Kragic. Learning predictive state representation
for in-hand manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, pages 3207–3214, 2015.
A. Stoytchev.
Behavior-grounded representation of tool aﬀordances.
In Proceedings of
the 2005 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 3060–3065,
2005.
F. Stramandinoli, V. Tikhanoﬀ, U. Pattacini, and F. Nori. Heteroscedastic regression and
active learning for modeling aﬀordances in humanoids. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive
and Developmental Systems, 10(2):455–468, 2018.
A. L. Strehl, L. Li, E. Wiewiora, J. Langford, and M. L. Littman. PAC model-free re-
inforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 881–888, 2006.
J. St¨uckler and S. Behnke. Adaptive tool-use strategies for anthropomorphic service robots.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots,
pages 755–760, 2014.
J. Sturm, A. Jain, C. Stachniss, C. C. Kemp, and W. Burgard. Operating articulated objects
based on experience. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 2739–2744, 2010.
J. Sturm, C. Stachniss, and W. Burgard. A probabilistic framework for learning kinematic
models of articulated objects. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 41(2):477–526,
2011.
Z. Su, K. Hausman, Y. Chebotar, A. Molchanov, G. E. Loeb, G. S. Sukhatme, and S. Schaal.
Force estimation and slip detection/classiﬁcation for grip control using a biomimetic tac-
tile sensor. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid
Robots, pages 297–303, 2015.
Z. Su, O. Kroemer, G. E. Loeb, G. S. Sukhatme, and S. Schaal. Learning to switch between
sensorimotor primitives using multimodal haptic signals. In From Animals to Animats,
pages 170–182, 2016.
V. Sukhoy, V. Georgiev, T. Wegter, R. Sweidan, and A. Stoytchev. Learning to slide a
magnetic card through a card reader. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2398–2404, 2012.
B. Sundaralingam, A. Lambert, A. Handa, B. Boots, T. Hermans, S. Birchﬁeld, N. Ratliﬀ,
and D. Fox. Robust learning of tactile force estimation through robot interaction. In
Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
2019.
74

===== PAGE 75 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
J. Sung, S. H. Jin, and A. Saxena. Robobarista: Object part-based transfer of manipu-
lation trajectories from crowd-sourcing in 3D pointclouds. In Proceedings of the 2015
International Symposium on Robotics Research, 2015.
J. Sung, I. Lenz, and A. Saxena. Deep multimodal embedding: Manipulating novel objects
with point-clouds, language and trajectories. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2794–2801, 2017a.
J. Sung, J. K. Salisbury, and A. Saxena. Learning to represent haptic feedback for partially-
observable tasks. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, pages 2802–2809, 2017b.
R. Sutton, D. Precup, and S. Singh. Between MDPs and semi-MDPs: A framework for
temporal abstraction in reinforcement learning. Artiﬁcial Intelligence, 112(1-2):181–211,
1999.
R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto. Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. MIT press, 1998.
R. S. Sutton, D. A. McAllester, S. P. Singh, and Y. Mansour. Policy gradient methods for
reinforcement learning with function approximation. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 13, pages 1057–1063, 2000.
M. Svetlik, M. Leonetti, J. Sinapov, R. Shah, N. Walker, and P. Stone. Automatic curricu-
lum graph generation for reinforcement learning agents. In Proceedings of the 31st AAAI
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 2590–2596, 2017.
A. Tamar, Y. Wu, G. Thomas, S. Levine, and P. Abbeel. Value iteration networks. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, pages 2154–2162, 2016.
Y. Tassa, N. Mansard, and E. Todorov. Control-limited diﬀerential dynamic programming.
In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 1168–1175, 2014.
M. Taylor, P. Stone, and Y. Liu. Transfer learning via inter-task mappings for temporal
diﬀerence learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 8(1):2125–2167, 2007.
M. E. Taylor, H. B. Suay, and S. Chernova. Integrating reinforcement learning with human
demonstrations of varying ability. In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on
Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, pages 617–624, 2011.
R. Tedrake, I. R. Manchester, M. Tobenkin, and J. W. Roberts. LQR-trees: Feedback
motion planning via sums-of-squares veriﬁcation. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, 29(8):1038–1052, 2010.
S. Tellex, T. Kollar, S. Dickerson, M. R. Walter, A. G. Banerjee, S. Teller, and N. Roy. Un-
derstanding natural language commands for robotic navigation and mobile manipulation.
In Proceedings of the 25th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1507–1514,
2011.
75

===== PAGE 76 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
A. ten Pas, M. Gualtieri, K. Saenko, and R. Platt. Grasp pose detection in point clouds.
International Journal of Robotics Research, 36(13-14):1455–1473, 2017.
M. Tenorth, S. Profanter, F. Balint-Benczedi, and M. Beetz. Decomposing CAD models of
objects of daily use and reasoning about their functional parts. In Proceedings of the 2013
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 5943–5949,
2013.
B. Thananjeyan, A. Balakrishna, U. Rosolia, F. Li, R. McAllister, J. E. Gonzalez, S. Levine,
F. Borrelli, and K. Goldberg. Extending deep model predictive control with safety aug-
mented value estimation from demonstrations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.13402, 2019.
E. Theodorou, J. Buchli, and S. Schaal. A generalized path integral control approach to
reinforcement learning. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 11(1):3137–3181, 2010.
P. Thomas and E. Brunskill. Data-eﬃcient oﬀ-policy policy evaluation for reinforcement
learning. In Proceedings of the 33rd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
2139–2148, 2016.
P. Thomas, G. Theocharous, and M. Ghavamzadeh. High conﬁdence policy improvement. In
Proceedings of the 32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 2380–2388,
2015a.
P. S. Thomas, G. Theocharous, and M. Ghavamzadeh. High-conﬁdence oﬀ-policy evaluation.
In Proceedings of the 29th AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 3000–3006,
2015b.
J. Thomason, J. Sinapov, M. Svetlik, P. Stone, and R. J. Mooney. Learning multi-modal
grounded linguistic semantics by playing ”I Spy”. In Proceedings of the 25th International
Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 3477–3483, 2016.
J. Tobin, R. Fong, A. Ray, J. Schneider, W. Zaremba, and P. Abbeel. Domain randomization
for transferring deep neural networks from simulation to the real world. In Proceedings of
the 2017 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages
23–30, 2017.
F. Torabi, G. Warnell, and P. Stone. Behavioral cloning from observation. In Proceedings of
the 28th International Joint Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 4950–4957, 2018.
M. Toussaint, K. Allen, K. A. Smith, and J. B. Tenenbaum. Diﬀerentiable physics and
stable modes for tool-use and manipulation planning. In Robotics: Science and Systems
XIV, 2018.
J. Tremblay, T. To, B. Sundaralingam, Y. Xiang, D. Fox, and S. T. Birchﬁeld. Deep object
pose estimation for semantic robotic grasping of household objects. In Proceedings of the
2nd Conference on Robot Learning, pages 306–316, 2018.
C. J. Tsikos and R. Bajcsy. Segmentation via manipulation. IEEE Transactions on Robotics
and Automation, 7(3):306–319, 1991.
76

===== PAGE 77 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
E. Ugur and J. Piater. Bottom-up learning of object categories, action eﬀects and logical
rules: From continuous manipulative exploration to symbolic planning. In Proceedings of
the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2627–2633,
2015.
E. Ugur and J. Piater. Reﬁning discovered symbols with multi-step interaction experience.
In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots,
pages 1007–1012, 2015.
E. Ugur, E. Sahin, and E. ¨Oztop. Predicting future object states using learned aﬀordances.
In Proceedings of the 24th International Symposium on Computer and Information Sci-
ences, pages 415–419, 2009.
E. Ugur, E. ¨Oztop, and E. Sahin. Going beyond the perception of aﬀordances: Learning
how to actualize them through behavioral parameters. In Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 4768–4773, 2011.
J. Van Den Berg, S. Miller, D. Duckworth, H. Hu, A. Wan, X.-Y. Fu, K. Goldberg, and
P. Abbeel. Superhuman performance of surgical tasks by robots using iterative learn-
ing from human-guided demonstrations. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2074–2081, 2010.
H. van Hoof, O. Kroemer, and J. Peters.
Probabilistic segmentation and targeted ex-
ploration of objects in cluttered environments. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 30(5):
1198–1209, 2014.
H. van Seijen, S. Whiteson, and L. Kester. Eﬃcient abstraction selection in reinforcement
learning. Computational Intelligence, 30(4):657–699, 2013.
J. Varley, D. Watkins-Valls, and P. K. Allen. Multi-modal geometric learning for grasping
and manipulation. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, 2019.
F. Veiga, H. van Hoof, J. Peters, and T. Hermans. Stabilizing novel objects by learning to
predict tactile slip. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 5065–5072, 2015.
F. Veiga, J. Peters, and T. Hermans. Grip stabilization of novel objects using slip prediction.
IEEE Transactions on Haptics, 11(4):531–542, 2018.
A. Vezhnevets, S. Osindero, T. Schaul, N. Heess, M. Jaderberg, D. Silver, , and
K. Kavukcuoglu. FeUdal networks for hierarchical reinforcement learning. In Proceedings
of the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 3540–3549, 2017.
N. Vien and M. Toussaint. Touch-based POMDP manipulation via sequential submod-
ular optimization. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE-RAS International Conference on
Humanoid Robots, pages 407–413, 2015a.
77

===== PAGE 78 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
N. Vien and M. Toussaint. POMDP manipulation via trajectory optimization. In Proceed-
ings of the 2015 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems,
pages 242–249, 2015b.
S. Vijayakumar and S. Schaal. Locally weighted projection regression: An O(n) algorithm
for incremental real time learning in high dimensional space. In Proceedings of the 17th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 288–293, 2000.
F. E. Vi˜na, Y. Bekiroglu, C. Smith, Y. Karayiannidis, and D. Kragic. Predicting slippage
and learning manipulation aﬀordances through Gaussian process regression.
In Pro-
ceedings of the 2013 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages
462–468, 2013.
A. S. Wang and O. Kroemer. Learning robust manipulation strategies with multimodal state
transition models and recovery heuristics. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, 2019.
H. Wang, S. Sridhar, J. Huang, J. Valentin, S. Song, and L. J. Guibas. Normalized object
coordinate space for category-level 6d object pose and size estimation. In Proceedings of
the 2019 Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019.
Z. Wang, V. Bapst, N. Heess, V. Mnih, R. Munos, K. Kavukcuoglu, and N. de Freitas. Sam-
ple eﬃcient actor-critic with experience replay. In Proceedings of the 2017 International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2017.
Z. Wang, C. R. Garrett, L. P. Kaelbling, and T. Lozano-Perez.
Active model learning
and diverse action sampling for task and motion planning. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 4107–4114,
2018.
C. J. Watkins and P. Dayan. Q-learning. Machine Learning, 8(3-4):279–292, 1992.
J. Weng, J. McClelland, A. Pentland, O. Sporns, I. Stockman, M. Sur, and E. Thelen.
Autonomous mental development by robots and animals. Science, 291(5504):599–600,
2001.
R. J. Williams. Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist reinforce-
ment learning. Machine Learning, 8(3-4):229–256, 1992.
F. W¨orgotter, E. E. Aksoy, N. Kruger, J. Piater, A. Ude, and M. Tamosiunaite. A simple
ontology of manipulation actions based on hand-object relations. IEEE Transactions on
Autonomous Mental Development, 5(2):117–134, 2013. ISSN 1943-0604.
J. Wu, I. Yildirim, J. J. Lim, B. Freeman, and J. Tenenbaum. Galileo: Perceiving physical
object properties by integrating a physics engine with deep learning. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 28, pages 127–135, 2015.
J. Wu, J. J. Lim, H. Zhang, J. B. Tenenbaum, and W. T. Freeman. Physics 101: Learning
physical object properties from unlabeled videos.
In Proceedings of the 2016 British
Machine Vision Conference, 2016.
78

===== PAGE 79 =====
A Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation
Y. Wu, E. Mansimov, R. B. Grosse, S. Liao, and J. Ba.
Scalable trust-region method
for deep reinforcement learning using Kronecker-factored approximation. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 30, pages 5279–5288, 2017.
M. Wulfmeier, P. Ondruska, and I. Posner. Maximum entropy deep inverse reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.04888, 2015.
M. W¨uthrich, J. Bohg, D. Kappler, C. Pfreundt, and S. Schaal. The coordinate particle
ﬁlter - a novel particle ﬁlter for high dimensional systems. In Proceedings of the 2015
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 2454–2461, 2015.
A. Xie, A. Singh, S. Levine, and C. Finn. Few-shot goal inference for visuomotor learning
and planning. In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot Learning, volume 87 of
Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 40–52, 2018.
D. Xu, S. Nair, Y. Zhu, J. Gao, A. Garg, L. Fei-Fei, and S. Savarese. Neural task program-
ming: Learning to generalize across hierarchical tasks. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages 1–8, 2018a.
T. Xu, Q. Liu, L. Zhao, W. Xu, and J. Peng. Learning to explore via meta-policy gradient.
In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 5463–
5472, 2018b.
A. Yamaguchi and C. G. Atkeson.
Diﬀerential dynamic programming with temporally
decomposed dynamics. In Proceedings of the 2015 IEEE-RAS International Conference
on Humanoid Robots, pages 696–703, 2015.
A. Yamaguchi and C. G. Atkeson. Stereo vision of liquid and particle ﬂow for robot pouring.
In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots,
pages 1173–1180, 2016a.
A. Yamaguchi and C. G. Atkeson.
Combining ﬁnger vision and optical tactile sensing:
Reducing and handling errors while cutting vegetables. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE-
RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages 1045–1051, 2016b.
A. Yamaguchi and C. G. Atkeson. Implementing tactile behaviors using ﬁngervision. In
Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE-RAS International Conference on Humanoid Robots, pages
241–248, 2017.
X. Yan, J. Hsu, M. Khansari, Y. Bai, A. Pathak, A. Gupta, J. Davidson, and H. Lee.
Learning 6-dof grasping interaction via deep geometry-aware 3d representations. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation, pages
1–9, 2018.
Y. Yang, Y. Li, C. Fermuller, and Y. Aloimonos. Robot learning manipulation action plans
by “watching” unconstrained videos from the world wide web. In Proceedings of the 29th
AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 3686–3692, 2015.
T. Ye, X. Wang, J. Davidson, and A. Gupta. Interpretable intuitive physics model. In
Proceedings of the 2018 European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 89–105, 2018.
79

===== PAGE 80 =====
Kroemer, Niekum, and Konidaris
K. Yu, M. Bauz´a, N. Fazeli, and A. Rodriguez. More than a million ways to be pushed.
A high-ﬁdelity experimental dataset of planar pushing.
In Proceedings of the 2016
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 30–37,
2016.
T. Yu, P. Abbeel, S. Levine, and C. Finn.
One-shot hierarchical imitation learning of
compound visuomotor tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.11043, 2018.
Z. Zeng, Z. Zhou, Z. Sui, and O. C. Jenkins. Semantic robot programming for goal-directed
manipulation in cluttered scenes. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation, pages 7462–7469, 2018.
F. Zhang, J. Leitner, M. Milford, B. Upcroft, and P. Corke. Towards vision-based deep
reinforcement learning for robotic motion control. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.03791, 2015.
T. Zhang, Z. McCarthy, O. Jowl, D. Lee, X. Chen, K. Goldberg, and P. Abbeel. Deep
imitation learning for complex manipulation tasks from virtual reality teleoperation. In
Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
pages 1–8, 2018.
K. Zhou, J. C. Doyle, and K. Glover. Robust and Optimal Control. Prentice Hall, 1996.
Y. Zhou, B. Burchﬁel, and G. Konidaris. Representing, learning, and controlling complex
object interactions. Autonomous Robots, 42(7):1355–1367, 2018.
B. D. Ziebart.
Modeling Purposeful Adaptive Behavior with the Principle of Maximum
Causal Entropy. PhD thesis, Carnegie Mellon University, 2010.
B. D. Ziebart, A. L. Maas, J. A. Bagnell, and A. K. Dey. Maximum entropy inverse reinforce-
ment learning. In Proceedings of the 22nd AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
pages 1433–1438, 2008.
J. Zimmer, T. Hellebrekers, T. Asfour, C. Majidi, and O. Kroemer. Predicting grasp success
with a soft sensing skin and shape-memory actuated gripper. In Proceedings of the 2019
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 7120 –
7127, November 2019.
80
