
===== PAGE 1 =====
Data Augmentation for Manipulation
Peter Mitrano
University of Michigan
Email: pmitrano@umich.edu
Dmitry Berenson
University of Michigan
Email: dmitryb@umich.edu
Abstract—The success of deep learning depends heavily on
the availability of large datasets, but in robotic manipulation
there are many learning problems for which such datasets do not
exist. Collecting these datasets is time-consuming and expensive,
and therefore learning from small datasets is an important open
problem. Within computer vision, a common approach to a lack
of data is data augmentation. Data augmentation is the process of
creating additional training examples by modifying existing ones.
However, because the types of tasks and data differ, the methods
used in computer vision cannot be easily adapted to manipulation.
Therefore, we propose a data augmentation method for robotic
manipulation. We argue that augmentations should be valid,
relevant, and diverse. We use these principles to formalize
augmentation as an optimization problem, with the objective
function derived from physics and knowledge of the manipulation
domain. This method applies rigid body transformations to
trajectories of geometric state and action data. We test our
method in two scenarios: 1) learning the dynamics of planar
pushing of rigid cylinders, and 2) learning a constraint checker
for rope manipulation. These two scenarios have different data
and label types, yet in both scenarios, training on our augmented
data signiﬁcantly improves performance on downstream tasks.
We also show how our augmentation method can be used on
real-robot data to enable more data-efﬁcient online learning.
I. INTRODUCTION
In recent years, interest in applying deep learning to robotic
manipulation has increased. However, the lack of cheap data
has proven to be a signiﬁcant limitation [24]. To enable ap-
plications such as smart and ﬂexible manufacturing, logistics,
and care-giving robots [22], we must develop methods that
learn from smaller datasets, especially if the learning is done
online on real robots.
One of the simplest and most effective ways to mitigate the
problem of small datasets is to use data augmentation. While
data augmentation has been shown to signiﬁcantly improve
generalization performance in tasks like image classiﬁcation,
it is not straightforward to extend existing data augmentation
methods to the types of data used in robotic manipulation.
Furthermore, most existing augmentation methods fall into one
of two categories, and both have severe limitations:
In the ﬁrst category, augmentations are deﬁned by a set
of transformations, sampled independently for each example.
Most image augmentation methods fall into this category,
where rotations or crops are sampled randomly for each
example [2, 6, 18]. By making augmentations independent of
the example being augmented, we are restricted to operations
which are valid on all examples. In the second category, there
are methods which learn a generative model (VAE, GAN, etc.)
of the data, and then sample new training examples from that
Fig. 1: A mock-up of a car engine bay. The robot must move
the rope and place it under the engine without snagging it
to set up for lifting the engine. We use data augmentation to
improve task success rate during online learning for this task.
model [20, 16, 3]. This approach assumes a useful generative
model can be learned from the given dataset, but we found
these methods did not perform well when the dataset is small.
It is not trivial to deﬁne a coherent framework for data
augmentation that encompasses many domains and many types
of learning problems (e.g. classiﬁcation and regression). Thus,
the ﬁrst contribution of this paper is a formalization of the data
augmentation problem. In our problem statement (Section III),
we formalize data augmentation as an optimization problem
based on three key criteria: validity, relevance, and diversity.
We deﬁne an augmented example as valid if it obeys the laws
of physics and is possible in the real world. Augmentations
are relevant if they are similar to data that would be seen
when performing the target task. Diversity encourages the
augmentations to be as varied as possible, i.e. the transfor-
mations applied to the data should be uniformly distributed to
maximize diversity. Producing diverse augmentations for each
original example is key to improving the generalization of the
trained network.
The general deﬁnitions of validity, relevance, and diver-
sity we propose depend on information that is intractable
to compute for many manipulation problems, and therefore
we also present approximations to these deﬁnitions. We do
not claim that this formulation is useful for all manipulation
problems, and clearly deﬁne the physical assumptions behind
arXiv:2205.02886v4  [cs.RO]  20 Jul 2022

===== PAGE 2 =====
Fig. 2: Examples of augmentations of rope generated by our method. On the left is a picture of the scene in simulation from
a zoomed out viewpoint. The simpliﬁed engine block model is in the center. The rope start (dark blue) and end (light blue)
states are shown, with the grippers shown at the start state. The static environment geometry is shown in brown. The ﬁrst
row shows a transition in free space, where the resulting augmentations are particularly diverse. The ﬁnal augmentation shows
how our method found a transformation to move the rope underneath the hook while remaining in free space. The second row
shows a transition which involves contact between the rope and the environment. The augmentations preserve this contact.
this formulation in Section III.
Our second contribution is a method for solving this ap-
proximated optimization problem. Our method operates on
trajectories of object poses and velocities, and searches for
rigid-body transformations to apply to the moving objects in
the scene to produce augmentations. Our method encourages
validity by preserving contacts and the inﬂuence of grav-
ity. Additionally, we encourage relevance by initializing the
augmentations nearby the original examples and preserving
near-contacts. Finally, we encourage diversity by pushing the
augmentations towards randomly sampled targets.
Our results demonstrate that training on our augmenta-
tions improves downstream task performance for a simulated
cluttered planar-pushing task and a simulated bimanual rope
manipulation task. The learning problems in these tasks in-
clude classiﬁcation and regression, and have high-dimensional
inputs and outputs. Lastly, we demonstrate our augmentation
in an online learning scenario on real-robot bimanual rope
manipulation using noisy real-world perception data (Figure
1). In this scenario, augmentation increased the success rate
from 27% to 50% in only 30 trials. Additional materials such
as code and video can be found on our project website [1].
II. RELATED WORK
This paper studies the problem of learning better models
from limited data, which is important for robotics applications
and has received signiﬁcant attention as researchers have tried
to apply deep learning to robotics [24, 9].
Data augmentation has been applied to many machine
learning problems, from material science [16] to ﬁnancial
modeling [3] (see [7, 4, 17] for several surveys). It is especially
common in computer vision [17, 18, 6, 10, 2], and is also
popular in natural language processing [4, 12]. In these ﬁelds
the data is often in standardized data types—images, text, or
vectors of non-physical features (e.g. prices). Each of the data
types can be used for a wide variety of tasks, and various
data augmentations have been developed for various pairings
of data type and task.
However, problems in robotic manipulation use other for-
mats of data, such as point clouds, or object poses, and may
consist of time-series data mixed with time-invariant data. To
the best of our knowledge, there are currently no augmentation
methods designed speciﬁcally for data of the types above. Our
proposed method is intended to ﬁll this gap.
In contrast to engineering augmentations based on prior
knowledge, another body of work uses unsupervised gener-
ative models to generate augmentations [20, 16, 3]. Typically,
these methods train a model like an Auto-Encoder or Gen-
erative Adversarial Network (GAN) [5]) on the data, encode
the input data into the latent space, perturb the data in the
latent space, then decode to produce the augmented examples.
These methods can be applied to any data type, and handle
both regression and classiﬁcation problems. However, they
do not incorporate prior knowledge, and only add small but
sophisticated noise. In contrast, we embed prior knowledge
about the physical and spatial nature of manipulation, and as
a result can produce large and meaningful augmentations, at
the cost of being less generally-applicable.
Although data augmentation is a popular approach, there
are many other methods that have been proposed for data-

===== PAGE 3 =====
Fig. 3: Examples of augmentations generated for learning the dynamics of planar pushing of 9 cylinders. The pink cylinder is
the robot. Time is indicated by transparency. Augmentation transforms the positions and velocities of the cylinders that moved,
including the robot. All moved objects are transformed together, rigidly. Despite the clutter, we are able to ﬁnd relatively large
transformations that still preserve existing contacts but do not create any new ones.
efﬁcient learning, both in general and speciﬁcally for robotic
manipulation. We highlight a few important ones here, but
note that these are all complementary to data augmentation.
The most common technique is simply to pick a low-capacity
model class, such as linear models or very small neural
networks [15, 25]. Alternatively, prior work has also developed
various sets of priors speciﬁc to robotics [8] which can be
used as objectives during training. Another extremely useful
technique is to engineer the state or action representations to
include certain known invariances. For instance, a standard
technique in dynamics learning methods is to represent the
input positions in a local frame as opposed to a world frame,
to encode translation invariance [11]. There are also methods
for learning these kinds of invariances [25].
Finally, there are methods which automatically tune the
parameters of a space of manually-deﬁned augmentations,
such as rotations and crops [2, 6]. These techniques are also
compatible with our proposed method, and could be used to
tune the hyperparameters of our algorithm.
III. PROBLEM STATEMENT
In this section, we formally deﬁne the form of data aug-
mentation studied in this paper. We deﬁne a dataset D as a
list of examples x ∈X and, optionally, labels ℓ(x) = w,
where ℓis a task-speciﬁc labeling function. We assume the
space X is a metric space with a distance function dist.
Augmentation is a stochastic function φ : X →X which takes
in an example x and produces the augmented example ˜x. The
general form is shown in Algorithm 1. Internally, augmentation
will call sample to generate a vector of parameters, which
we call T. We also deﬁne ˜x1:k as a set of k augmented
examples produced by calling sample then apply k times.
Algorithm 1: φ(x)
1 T = sample(x)
2 ˜x = apply(x, T)
3 return ˜x
The parameters T describe the transformation which will be
applied to the example in the apply procedure. We focus on
augmentation functions that are stochastic, thus φ will sample
new augmented examples each time it is called. If the dataset
contains labels w, we assume that the labels should not change
when the example is augmented.
We propose that useful augmentations should be valid,
relevant, and diverse. Let the valid set Xv be the set of
examples which are physically possible. Let the relevant set
Xr be the set of examples likely to occur when collecting data
for or executing a speciﬁc set of tasks in a speciﬁc domain.
We deﬁne validity(˜x) = 1 if ˜x ∈Xv and validity(˜x) = 0
otherwise. We also deﬁne relevance(˜x) := e−dist(˜x,Xr) and
diversity(˜x1:k) := e−DKL(p˜x1:k (T ) || U[T −,T +]), where DKL is
the Kullback–Leibler divergence and p˜x1:k(T) is the distribu-
tion of the parameters for a set of augmented examples ˜x1:k.
Diversity is maximized when the augmentation transforma-
tions are uniformly distributed in the range [T −, T +]. With
these concepts deﬁned, we deﬁne data augmentation as the
following optimization problem, the solution to which is a set
of augmentations ˜x1:k:
max
˜x1:k
diversity(˜x1:k) + β P
˜xi relevance(˜xi)
subject to
validity(˜xi)
∀˜xi ∈˜x1:k
ℓ(˜x) = ℓ(x)
(1)

===== PAGE 4 =====
Fig. 4: (left) The environment for bimanual rope manipulation,
in simulation. (right) The environment for cluttered planar
pushing of cylinders, in simulation.
where β is a positive scalar.
This optimization problem can be solved directly if Xv, Xr,
and ℓare known. However, in manipulation tasks, that is rarely
the case. Instead, we will formulate an approximation to this
problem using measures of relevance, diversity, and validity
that are derived from physics and useful for a variety of robotic
manipulation tasks and domains.
A. Assumptions
Most augmentation algorithms rely on some expert knowl-
edge or heuristics to deﬁne what is a valid augmentation. For
instance, rotating an image for image classiﬁcation makes an
assumption that rotation does not change the label, and this
is not always true. Similarly, the efﬁcacy or correctness of
our algorithm is also subject to certain assumptions. Here, we
deﬁne the key assumptions:
• The geometry of the robot and all objects is known.
• The scene can be decomposed into objects which can be
assigned or detected as either moving or stationary.
• Examples are time-series, consisting of at least two states.
• All possible contacts between stationary vs. moving ob-
jects have the same friction coefﬁcient.
• Contacts between the robot and objects/environment (e.g.
grasps) can be determined from the data.
• A rigid-body transformation of an object preserves inter-
nal forces arising from its material properties.
• Objects only move due to contact or under the force of
gravity. We do not handle movement due to magnetism
or wind, for example.
Notably, the assumption that a rigid-body transformation
preserves internal, material forces is what allows us to han-
dle cluttered scenes with many moving objects, as well as
deformable or articulated objects. While it could be valuable
to augment the deformation or relative motion of the objects,
doing so in a way that is valid would be challenging. Instead,
we transform them all rigidly (See examples in Figures 2,3).
The assumption of having a common friction coefﬁcient
between all moving versus stationary objects is in-line with
much manipulation research. For example, work on planar
pushing assumes friction is uniform across the plane [26, 23].
Note that we make no assumption on the coefﬁcients of
friction between two moving objects.
Naturally, there are scenarios where these assumptions do
not hold and thus where our algorithm may not perform well.
However, our experiments demonstrate signiﬁcant improve-
ment on two very different manipulation scenarios, and we
expect these assumptions extend to other scenarios as well.
IV. METHODS
We ﬁrst describe an approximation to the augmentation
problem (1), which is specialized for manipulation. Next,
we decompose this problem and describe each component in
detail.
A. Algorithm Overview
Since robotic manipulation is interested speciﬁcally in mov-
ing objects, we focus on augmenting trajectories of poses and
velocities of moving objects. A key insight is that objects in
the scene can be categorized as either robots, moved objects,
or stationary objects, and that these should be considered
differently in augmentation. We denote the moved objects
state as s, the robot state as r, the robot action as a, and the
stationary objects as e (also called environment). Our method
augments the moved object states, the robot state, and the
actions, but not the stationary objects. We do not assume any
speciﬁc representation for states or actions, and examples of
possible representations include sets of points, joint angles,
poses, or joint velocities. Since we operate on trajectories, we
bold the state (s, r) and action (a) variables to indicate time-
series (e.g s1:T = s). With this categorization, we can write
x = {s, r, a, e} and ˜x = {˜s, ˜r, ˜a, e}.
We choose the parameters T to be rigid body transfor-
mations, i.e. either SE(2) or SE(3). We parameterize T as
a vector with translation and rotation components, with the
rotation component with Euler angles bounded from −π/2
to π/2, which gives uniqueness and a valid distance metric.
These rigid body transforms are applied to moved objects in
the scene, and augmented robot state and action are computed
to match. We choose rigid body transforms because we can
reasonably assume that even for articulated or deformable
objects, augmenting with rigid body transforms preserve the
internal forces, and therefore the augmentations are likely to
be valid.
It may seem that an effective method to generate augmen-
tations is then to randomly sample transforms independent of
the data. However, this is not an effective strategy because
it is highly unlikely to randomly sample valid and relevant
transformations. We conﬁrm this in our ablations studies (in-
cluded in the Appendix 1.A). Instead of sampling transforms
randomly, we formulate an approximation to Problem 1:
min
T
LU(T, T target) + β1Lbbox(˜s) + β2Lvalid(T)+
β3Locc(˜s, e) + β4L∆d−(˜s, e)+
Lrobot(˜s, ˜r, ˜a, e)
subject to
{˜s, ˜r, ˜a, e} = apply(s, r, a, e, T)
T target ∼U[T −, T +]
(2)

===== PAGE 5 =====
The decision variable is now the parameters T, and the
validity constraint is moved into the objective. We propose that
diversity should be maximized by the transforms being uni-
formly distributed, and therefore LU penalizes the distance to
a target transform T target sampled uniformly within [T −, T +].
The relevance and validity terms (which are intractable to
compute) are replaced with four objective functions, which are
specialized to manipulation. The magnitudes of different terms
are balanced by β1, β2, β3, β4, which are deﬁned manually. We
deﬁne each objective function below:
1) Bounding Box Objective: First is the bounding-box
objective Lbbox, which keeps the augmented states ˜s within the
workspace/scene bounds deﬁned by [s−, s+]. The bounding
box objective encourages relevance, since states outside the
workspace are unlikely to be relevant for the task.
Lbbox =
|s|
X
i=1
max(0, ˜si −s+
i ) + max(0, s−
i −˜si)
(3)
2) Transformation Validity Objective: The transformation
validity objective Lvalid assigns high cost to transformations
that are always invalid or irrelevant for the particular task or
domain. It is deﬁned by function fvalid, which takes in only the
transformation. For example, in our rope manipulation case,
it is nearly always invalid to rotate the rope so that it ﬂoats
sideways. In our cluttered pushing task, in contrast, this term
has no effect. This term can be chosen manually on a per-
task basis, but we also describe how a transformation validity
objective can be learned from data in section IV-C.
Lvalid = fvalid(T)
(4)
3) Occupancy Objective: The occupancy objective Locc is
designed to ensure validity by preventing objects that were
separate in the original example from penetrating each other
and ensuring that any existing penetrations are preserved. In
other words, we ensure that the occupancy O(p) of each
point ˜ps,i ∈˜ps in the augmented object state matches the
occupancy of the corresponding original point ps,i ∈ps. For
this term, we directly deﬁne the gradient, which moves ˜ps,i in
the correct direction when the occupancies do not match. This
involves converting the environment e into a signed-distance
ﬁeld (SDF) and the moved objects states s into points ps. This
objective assumes that the environment has uniform friction,
so that a contact/penetration in one region of the environment
can be moved to another region.
Locc =
X
ps,i∈ps
˜ps,i∈˜ps
SDF(˜ps,i)
 O(ps,i) −O(˜ps,i)

(5)
4) Delta Minimum Distance Objective: The delta min-
imum distance objective is designed to increase relevance
by preserving near-contact events in the data. We preserve
near-contact events because they may signify important parts
of the task, such as being near a goal object or avoiding
an obstacle. We deﬁne the point among the moved object
Fig. 5: Illustration of aug_state within Algorithm 2. All
points and sets are in the space of T. The path of T is shown
in red with black arrows. The pink set, State Valid, is the set
where state valid is true. T begins at the origin, and alternates
between moving towards T target and projecting back into the
set state valid (by solving Equation (8)).
points ps which has the minimum distance to the environment
pd−= argminps,iSDF(ps,i). The corresponding point in the
augmented example we call ˜pd−.
L∆d−= ||SDF(pd−) −SDF(˜pd−)||2
2
(6)
5) Robot Contact Objective: The robot contact objective
Lrobot ensures validity of the robot’s state and the action. This
means that contacts involving the moved objects which existed
in the original example must also exist in the augmented
example. Let the contact points on the robot be pc
r and the
contact points on the moved objects’ state be pc
s.
Lrobot =
X
i
(||pc
r,i −pc
s,i||2
2)
(7)
Finally, we note that other objective functions can be added
for the purpose of preserving task-speciﬁc labels, i.e. so that
ℓ(x) = ℓ(˜x). However, for our experiments, no additional
functions were necessary.
B. Solving the Augmentation Optimization Problem
This section describes how we solve Problem (2), and
the procedure is detailed in Algorithm 2. First, we split the
problem into two parts, aug_state and aug_robot.
In aug_state, we optimize the transform T to produce
the moved objects’ state ˜s while considering environment e.
To achieve diversity, we uniformly sample a target transform
T target and step towards it iteratively. This stepping alternates
with optimizing for validity and relevance. We visualize this
procedure in Figure 5, as well as in the supplementary video.
The innermost optimization problem is
argmax
T
β1Lbbox + β2Lvalid + β3Locc + β4L∆d−
(8)
We solve Problem (8) using gradient descent, terminating
after either Mp steps or until the gradient is smaller than some
threshold ϵp.
Note that we start aug_state in Algorithm 2 with T
at the identity transformation, rather than initially sampling
uniformly. This has two beneﬁts. First, the identity transform
gives the original example, which is always in the relevant set.
Second, it is unlikely that a uniformly sampled transformation

===== PAGE 6 =====
Algorithm 2: φ(s, r, a, e)
// aug_state
1 T target ∼U[T −, T +]
2 T = 0 (identity)
3 for i ∈Np do
4
Told = T
5
T = step_towards(T, T target)
6
T = solve Equation (8)
7
if dist(T, Told) < δp then
8
break
// aug_robot
9 ˜s, state valid = apply_state(s, a, T)
10 ˜r, ˜a, ik valid ←IK(r, a, ˜s, e)
11 if !state valid or !ik valid then
12
return s, r, a, e
13 else
14
return ˜s, ˜r, ˜a, e
is valid or relevant, so starting at a random transformation
would make solving Problem (8) more difﬁcult.
In aug_robot, we are optimizing Lrobot. This corresponds
to computing the augmented robot states ˜r and actions ˜a given
the augmented states ˜s and the environment e. Minimizing
Lrobot means preserving the contacts the robot makes with
the scene, which we do with inverse kinematics (Line 10 in
Algorithm 2).
C. Learning the Valid Transforms Objective
As discussed above, we include a term Lvalid based only
on the transformation T. In some cases, such as our rope
manipulation example, it may not be obvious how to deﬁne
this objective manually. Our rope is very ﬂexible, and therefore
rotating the rope so that it ﬂoats in a sideways arc is invalid,
but it may be valid for a stiff rope or cable. To address this,
we offer a simple and data efﬁcient algorithm for learning the
transformation validity function fvalid.
Our method for learning fvalid is given in Algorithm 3. This
algorithm repeatedly samples augmentations of increasing
magnitude, and tests them on the system (lines 6 and 8). This
generates ground truth states starting from an input state and
action. The result is a dataset Dvalid of examples (T, yvalid).
We then train a small neural network fvalid,θ(T) to predict the
error yvalid and use the trained model as our transformation
validity objective. We collect nvalid =
√
10d examples, where
d is the dimensionality of the space of the transformation T.
This method owes its efﬁciency and simplicity to a few
key assumptions about the system/data. First, we assume that
we can collect a few (< 1000) examples from the system
and test various transformations. This could be performed
in a simulator, as we do in our experiments. Because the
transformation validity objective is not a function of state,
action, or environment, we can make simpliﬁcations to this
simulation by picking states and environments which are
easy to simulate. We denote this set of states and actions as
Algorithm 3: Data Collection for Learning Valid
Transformations
Input: Qvalid, nvalid
Output: Dvalid
1 y−
valid = ∞
2 for i ∈[1, nvalid] do
3
for (st, rt, at, e) ∈Qvalid do
4
αvalid = i/nvalid
5
T ∼U[αvalidT −, αvalidT +]
6
st+1, rt+1 = simulate(st, rt, at, e)
7
˜st,t+1, ˜rt,t+1, ˜at = apply(st,t+1, rt,t+1, at, T)
8
˜s′
t+1, ˜r′
t+1 = simulate( ˜st, ˜rt, ˜at, e)
9
yvalid = ||˜st+1 −˜s′
t+1||
10
if yvalid < y−
valid then
11
y−
valid = yvalid, Tmin = T, y−
valid = yvalid
12
add (Tmin, y−
valid) to Dvalid
13 return Dvalid
Qvalid. Second, because the transformation parameters are low-
dimensional (3 and 6 in our experiments) the trained model
generalizes well with relatively few examples.
D. Application to Cluttered Planar Pushing
In this section, we describe how we apply the proposed
method to learning the dynamics of pushing of 9 cylinders on
a table (Figure 4). The moved object state s consists of the
2D positions and velocities of the cylinders. The robot state
r is a list of joint positions, and the actions a are desired
end effector positions in 2D. There is no w in this problem.
The parameters T used are SE(2) transforms. In this problem,
any individual trajectory may include some moved cylinders
and some stationary ones. In our formulation, the stationary
cylinders are part of e and are not augmented, whereas the
moved ones are part of s and are augmented. The robot’s end
effector (also a cylinder) is also augmented, and IK can be used
to solve for joint conﬁgurations which match the augmented
cylinders’ state and preserve the contacts between the robot
and the moved cylinders.
E. Application to Bimanual Rope Manipulation
In this section, we describe how we apply the proposed
method to a bimanual rope manipulation problem (Figure 4).
In this problem, there is a binary class label, so w ∈{0, 1},
which is preserved under our augmentation (last constraint
in Problem (1)). The rope is the moved object, and its state
s is a set of 25 points in 3D. The robot state r is a list
of the 18 joint positions, and the actions a are desired end
effector positions in the robot frame. In this problem, we know
that the only contacts the robot makes with the objects or
environment are its grasps on the rope. Therefore, we preserve
these contacts by solving for a robot state and action that match
the augmented points on the rope. The parameters T used are
SE(3) transforms.

===== PAGE 7 =====
Fig. 6: Mean position error (meters) for learning the dynamics
of cluttered planar pushing.
V. RESULTS
We start by describing the tasks and our experimental
methodology, then we present our results. These experiments
are designed to show that training on augmentations generated
by our method improves performance on a downstream task.
We perform two simulated experiments, where we run thou-
sands of evaluations, including several ablations (see Appendix
1.A). We also perform a real robot experiment (Figure 1)
where we run 30 iterations of online validity classiﬁer learning,
with augmentation and without. In all experiments, we train
until convergence or for a ﬁxed number of training steps. This
ensures a fair comparison to training without augmentation,
despite the differing number of unique training examples. In
all experiments we generate 25 augmentations per original
example (See Appendix 1.B). We deﬁne key hyperparameters
of our method in Appendix 1.C. A link to our code is available
on the project website [1].
A. Cluttered Planar Pushing
The cluttered planar pushing environment consists of a
single robotic arm pushing 9 cylinders around on a table.
The task is to learn the dynamics, so that the motion of
the cylinders can be predicted given initial conditions and a
sequence of robot actions. For this, we use PropNet [11], and
our task is inspired by the application of PropNet to planar
pushing in [19]. The inputs to PropNet are an initial state s0
and a sequence of actions a, and the targets are the future state
(s1, . . . , sT ). All trajectories are of length 50. We evaluate
the learned dynamics by computing the mean and maximum
errors for position and velocity on a held-out test set. Example
augmentations for this scenario are shown in Figure 3.
This is an interesting application of our augmentation for
several reasons. First, it is a regression task, which few aug-
mentation methods allow. Second, the output of the dynamics
network is high-dimensional (900 for a prediction of length
50), which normally means large datasets are needed and
engineering invariances into the data or network is difﬁcult.
Finally, the trajectories contain non-negligible velocities and
are not quasi-static.
The original dataset contained 60 trajectories of length 50,
or 3,000 time steps in total. For comparison, previous work on
the same dynamics learning problem used over 100,000 time
steps in their datasets [11, 19]. This is similar to the number
Fig. 7: Predictions (blue) vs. ground truth (red) for planar
pushing. The robot is in pink. Trajectories are visualized with
lines. The left column shows predictions from a model trained
with augmentation, the right column without.
of training examples we have after augmentation, which is
75,000 time steps. Finally, we measured the performance of
our implementation and found that for the planar pushing
scenario we generate 4.5 augmentations per second on average.
The primary results are shown in Figure 6. Augmenta-
tion reduces the average position error from 0.00154 m to
0.00133 m, a decrease of 14%. Additionally, we include two
baselines, one which adds Gaussian noise to the state, robot,
action, and environment data, and one which uses a VAE
to generate augmentations as in [16]. The magnitude of the
Gaussian noise was chosen manually to be small but visually
noticeable. Our proposed augmentation method is statistically
signiﬁcantly better than the baseline without augmentation
(p < 0.0362), the Gaussian noise baseline (p < 0.0001),
and the VAE baseline (p < 0.0002). This difference in error
may seem small, but note that error is averaged over objects,
and most objects are stationary. Two roll-outs from with-
augmentation and from without-augmentation are shown in
Figure 7. In particular, we found that augmentation reduces
“drift,” where the model predicts small movements for objects
that should be stationary. Finally, we note that the Gaussian
noise and VAE baselines perform worse than no augmentation,
suggesting that data augmentation can hurt performance if the
augmentations are done poorly.
B. Bimanual Rope Manipulation
In this task, the end points of a rope are held by the robot
in its grippers in a scene resembling the engine bay of a
car, similar to [14], and shown in Figure 4. The robot has
two 7-dof arms attached to a 3-dof torso with parallel-jaw
grippers. The tasks the robot performs in this scene mimic

===== PAGE 8 =====
Fig. 8: The success rate on simulated bimanual rope manipu-
lation, using a moving window average of 10.
putting on or taking off lifting straps from the car engine,
installing ﬂuid hoses, or cable harnesses. These tasks require
moving the strap/hose/cable through narrow passages and
around protrusions to various speciﬁed goal positions without
getting caught. One iteration consists of planning to the goal,
executing open-loop, then repeating planning and execution
until a timeout or the goal is reached. The goal is deﬁned as a
spherical region with 4.5 cm radius, and is satisﬁed when any
of the points on the rope are inside this region.
The planner is an RRT with a learned constraint checker
for edge validity (validity classiﬁer), and more details are
given in [14]. We want to learn a classiﬁer that takes in a
single transition x = (st, at, st+1, et) and predicts whether the
transition is valid. Without a good constraint checker, the robot
will plan trajectories that result in the rope being caught on
obstacles or not reaching the goal. We apply our augmentation
algorithm to the data for training this constraint checker. After
an execution has completed, the newly-collected data along
with all previously collected data are used to train the classiﬁer
until convergence. Example augmentations for this scenario
are shown in Figure 2. The objective is to learn the constraint
checker in as few iterations as possible, achieving a higher
success rate with fewer data.
In this experiment, a total of 3,038 examples were gathered
(before augmentation, averaged over the 10 repetitions). Since
the purpose of our augmentations is to improve performance
using small datasets, it is important that this number is small.
In contrast, prior work learning a similar classiﬁer used over
100,000 examples in their datasets [14, 13]. This is similar
to the number of training examples we have after augmen-
tation, which is 75,950 on average. Finally, we measured the
performance of our implementation and found that for the rope
scenario we generate 27 augmentations per second on average.
The primary results are shown in Figure 8. Over the course
of 100 iterations, the success of our method using augmenta-
tion is higher than the baseline of not using augmentation, as
well as the Gaussian noise baseline. We omit the VAE baseline,
since it performed poorly in the planer pushing experiment.
Furthermore, it is computationally prohibitive to retrain the
VAE at each iteration, and ﬁne-tuning the VAE online tends
Fig. 9: The success rate and task error distribution of bimanual
rope manipulation on the real robot. Task error is the distance
between the goal and the ﬁnal observed state of the rope.
to get stuck in bad local minima. The shaded regions show
the 95th percentile over 10 runs. If we analyze the success
rates averaged over the ﬁnal 10 iterations, we ﬁnd that without
augmentation the success rate is 48%, but with augmentation
the success rate is 70%. The Gaussian noise baseline has a ﬁnal
success rate of 31%. A one-sided T-test conﬁrms statistical
signiﬁcance (p < 0.001 for both).
C. Real Robot Results
In this section, we perform a similar experiment to the simu-
lated bimanual rope manipulation experiment, but on real robot
hardware. This demonstrates that our method is also effective
on noisy sensor data. More importantly, it demonstrates how
augmentation enables a robot to quickly learn a task in the
real world. We use CDCPD2 [21] to track the rope state.
The geometry of the car scene is approximated with primitive
geometric shapes, like in the simulated car environment.
We ran the validity classiﬁer learning procedure with a
single start conﬁguration and a single goal region, both with
and without augmentation. After 30 iterations of learning, we
stop and evaluate the learned classiﬁers several times. With
augmentation, the robot successfully placed the rope under
the engine 13/26 times. Without augmentation, it succeeded
7/26 times. The Gaussian noise and VAE baselines performs
poorly in simulated experiments, therefore we omit them in
the real robot experiments.
VI. LIMITATIONS
There are problems and applications where the proposed
objective functions do not ensure validity, relevance, and
diversity. In these cases, the structure of our augmentation
and projection procedures can remain, while new objective
functions are developed. Another limitation is that our method
is not compatible with image data. Much recent research in
robotics has moved away from engineered state representations
like poses with geometric information, and so there are many
learning methods which operate directly on images. Although
this is a limitation of the proposed method, many of the
augmentations developed for images are also not applicable
to problems in manipulation, even when images are used. For

===== PAGE 9 =====
instance, pose detection, 3D reconstruction, semantic segmen-
tation, and many other tasks may not be invariant to operations
like cropping, ﬂipping, or rotating. Creating an augmentation
method for manipulation that is applicable to images is an
open area for future research.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper proposes a novel data augmentation method
designed for trajectories of geometric state and action robot
data. We introduce the idea that augmentations should be valid,
relevant, and diverse, and use these to formalize data augmen-
tation as an optimization problem. By leveraging optimization,
our augmentations are not limited to simple operations like
rotation and jitter. Instead, our method can ﬁnd complex and
precise transformations to the data that are valid, relevant, and
diverse. Our results show that this method enables signiﬁcantly
better downstream task performance when training on small
datasets. In simulated planar pushing, augmentation decreases
the prediction error by 14%. In simulated bimanual rope
manipulation, the success rate with augmentation is 70%
compared to 47% without augmentation. We also perform
the bimanual rope manipulation task in the real world, which
demonstrates the effectiveness of our algorithm despite noisy
sensor data. In the real world experiment, the success rate
improves from 27% to 50% with the addition of augmentation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors would like to acknowledge Andrea Sipos for
her ingenious design of a reset mechanism, allowing us to
run robot experiments unattended. This work was supported
in part by NSF grants IIS-1750489 and IIS-2113401, ONR
grant N00014-21-1-2118, and the Toyota Research Institute.
This article solely reﬂects the opinions and conclusions of its
authors and not TRI or any other Toyota entity.
REFERENCES
[1] https://sites.google.com/view/
data-augmentation4manipulation.
[2] Gregory W. Benton, Marc Finzi, Pavel Izmailov, and
Andrew Gordon Wilson. Learning Invariances in Neural
Networks from Training Data. NeurIPS, 2020.
[3] Sumeyra Demir, Krystof Mincev, Koen Kok, and Niko-
laos G. Paterakis.
Data augmentation for time series
regression: Applying transformations, autoencoders and
adversarial networks to electricity price forecasting. Ap-
plied Energy, 2021.
[4] Steven Y. Feng, Varun Gangal, Jason Wei, Sarath Chan-
dar, Soroush Vosoughi, Teruko Mitamura, and Eduard
Hovy. A Survey of Data Augmentation Approaches for
NLP. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2021.
[5] Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing
Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville,
and Yoshua Bengio.
Generative Adversarial Nets.
NeurIPS, 2014.
[6] Ekin Dogus Cubuk and Barret Zoph and Dandelion Man´e
and Vijay Vasudevan and Quoc V. Le.
Autoaugment:
Learning augmentation policies from data. ArXiv, 2018.
[7] Brian Kenji Iwana and Seiichi Uchida. An Empirical Sur-
vey of Data Augmentation for Time Series Classiﬁcation
with Neural Networks. PLOS One, 2020.
[8] Rico Jonschkowski and Oliver Brock.
Learning state
representations with robotic priors. Autonomous Robots,
2015.
[9] Oliver Kroemer, Scott Niekum, and George Konidaris. A
Review of Robot Learning for Manipulation: Challenges,
Representations, and Algorithms. JMLR, 2021.
[10] Michael Laskin, Kimin Lee, Adam Stooke, Lerrel Pinto,
Pieter Abbeel, and Aravind Srinivas.
Reinforcement
Learning with Augmented Data. NeurIPS, 2020.
[11] Yunzhu Li, Jiajun Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, Joshua B. Tenen-
baum, Antonio Torralba, and Russ Tedrake. Propagation
Networks for Model-Based Control Under Partial Obser-
vation. ICRA, 2019.
[12] Edward Ma. NLP Augmentation, 2019.
[13] Dale McConachie, Thomas Power, Peter Mitrano, and
Dmitry Berenson. Learning When to Trust a Dynamics
Model for Planning in Reduced State Spaces.
IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 2020.
[14] Peter Mitrano, Dale McConachie, and Dmitry Berenson.
Learning Where to Trust Unreliable Models in an Un-
structured World for Deformable Object Manipulation.
Science Robotics, 2021.
[15] David Navarro-Alarc´on, Yun-Hui Liu, Jos´e Guadalupe
Romero, and Peng Li.
Model-Free Visually Servoed
Deformation Control of Elastic Objects by Robot Ma-
nipulators. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2013.
[16] Hiroshi Ohno.
Auto-encoder-based generative models
for data augmentation on regression problems.
Soft
Computing, 2020.
[17] Connor Shorten and Taghi M. Khoshgoftaar. A survey on
Image Data Augmentation for Deep Learning. Journal
of Big Data, 6:60, 2019.
[18] P.Y. Simard, D. Steinkraus, and J.C. Platt. Best practices
for convolutional neural networks applied to visual doc-
ument analysis. International Conference on Document
Analysis and Recognition, 2003.
[19] Ahmet E. Tekden, Aykut Erdem, Erkut Erdem, Mert
Imre, M. Yunus Seker, and Emre Ugur. Belief Regulated
Dual Propagation Nets for Learning Action Effects on
Groups of Articulated Objects. ICRA, 2020.
[20] Toan Tran, Trung Pham, Gustavo Carneiro, Lyle J.
Palmer, and Ian D. Reid. A Bayesian Data Augmentation
Approach for Learning Deep Models. NeurIPS, 2017.
[21] Yixuan Wang, Dale McConachie, and Dmitry Berenson.
Tracking Partially-Occluded Deformable Objects while
Enforcing Geometric Constraints. ICRA, 2021.
[22] Johnny Wood. Robot workers are being hired at record
rates in US companies - here’s why. World Economic
Forum, 2021.
[23] Kuan-Ting Yu, Maria Bauz´a, Nima Fazeli, and Alberto
Rodriguez. More than a Million Ways to Be Pushed: A
High-Fidelity Experimental Data Set of Planar Pushing.
IROS, 2016.

===== PAGE 10 =====
[24] Wojciech Zaremba. OpenAI Disbands Robotics. Inter-
view on YouTube, 2021.
[25] Sheng Zhong, Zhenyuan Zhang, Nima Fazeli, and Dmitry
Berenson.
TAMPC: A Controller for Escaping Traps
in Novel Environments. IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 2021.
[26] Gao Ziyan, Armagan Elibol, and Nak Young Chong.
Planar Pushing of Unknown Objects Using a Large-Scale
Simulation Dataset and Few-Shot Learning. International
Conference on Automation Science and Engineering
(CASE), 2021.

===== PAGE 11 =====
I. APPENDIX
A. Ablation of Objective Terms
The objectives terms we propose are designed to be
useful in many cases, but to understand this better, we
ablate several of the objective terms. We evaluate the
importance of the transformation validity objective, oc-
cupancy objective, and delta minimum distance objective
by repeating our experiments. In each ablation, we omit
one objective term. Each condition was run 10 times
with different random seeds. The results are shown in
Table I and Figure 1.
Fig. 1.
Success vs Iterations for ablations. Bimanual rope manipula-
tion, in simulation.
Method
Task Success % (↑)
(rope)
Position Error (m) (↓)
(planar pushing)
Full Method
0.700 (0.118)
0.0010 (0.0001)
No transf. valid.
0.700 (0.185)
0.0011 (0.0001)
No delta min dist
0.675 (0.185)
0.0012 (0.0002)
No occupancy
0.24 (0.136)
0.0028 (0.0011)
TABLE I
ABLATIONS: METRICS ON BOTH TASKS, WITH VARIOUS OBJECTIVE
TERMS REMOVED. THE STANDARD DEVIATION IS SHOWN IN
PARENTHESES.
We ﬁnd that across both experiments, the most impor-
tant objective was the occupancy objective. Without this
objective, our method produced augmentations where
contacts and penetrations are not preserved. This is
invalid, and training on these examples produces a worse
model even than using no augmentations.
The next most important objective is the delta min-
imum distance objective. In our simulated rope experi-
ment, the method without this objective performs slightly
worse. By visualizing the different examples (Figure 2),
we found that without this objective, the augmentation
transforms examples which were near the hooks and
Fig. 2.
Augmented rope data generated without the delta minimum
distance objective. On the left is the original transition, under the hook.
On the right is the augmented transition, which is far from the hook.
Without the delta minimum distance objective, data can be augmented
away from interesting regions, becoming less relevant. This is based
on the heuristic that contact and near-contact events are relevant for
manipulation.
protrusions far into free space. In contrast, with the delta
minimum distance objective, these examples stay near
the hooks. Since the planning tasks involve moving in
narrow passages around these hooks, it’s more relevant to
produce more examples in this area. Hence, by preserv-
ing the distance to nearby obstacles, we also tend to keep
examples in areas of interest. In the planar pushing task,
however, omitting the delta minimum distance objective
did not have a notable effect. This could be in part due
to the cluttered nature of the scene, which means that
most transformations are small.
Finally, we ﬁnd that the valid transformation objective
can be omitted without effecting performance in these
two tasks. In the planar pushing case this is completely
expected, because there are no SE(2) transformations
which are always invalid or irrelevant. However, in the
rope experiment, this result is less intuitive. We found
that omitting this objective occasionally produced aug-
mentations where the rope is ﬂoating sideways in physi-
cally impossible states. This result suggests that even if a
few augmentations are invalid or irrelevant, training on
the augmentations still signiﬁcantly outperforms using
no augmentations. Even if omitting the objective does
not degrade performance in these experiments, it is a
natural term to include and may be beneﬁcial in other
applications.
B. Choosing the Number of Augmentations
Our method produces multiple distinct augmentations
for each original example. More augmentations should
improve generalization after training, but at the cost
of additional computation time. In this experiment, we
explore how the number of augmentations per-example
arXiv:2205.02886v4  [cs.RO]  20 Jul 2022

===== PAGE 12 =====
affects generalization. We tested this in the rope domain
on the task of learning the constraint checker. The
original un-augmented dataset came from the ﬁrst three
iterations of learning. With these examples, we then
generated varying numbers of augmentations for each
example and evaluated on a held-out test example drawn
from the fourth iteration. Figure 3 shows three rope
transitions labeled 0 from the original three training
examples, followed by the held-out test example. In-
tuitively we would expect, with enough augmentations,
that from these original training examples we would be
able to generate augmented examples which are very
similar to the held-out test example.
Fig. 3.
(top) These three original training example show rope
transitions with inaccurate predictions, where the rope is predicted to
move inside the hook on the engine. (bottom) The test transition is
similar, but is not identical. The proposed augmentation method can
move the rope transition while ensuring it still intersects the hook in
a similar way, which allows it to generate augmentations like the test
example.
For each number of augmentations, we generated 3
augmented datasets (using different random seeds) and
trained 3 models on each dataset (again using different
random seeds), for a total of 9 data points for each
number of augmentations. The results are shown in
Figure 4. The y-axis is the classiﬁer output on the test
example, which has a true label of 0 (lower is better).
Without any augmentations, the classiﬁer has an output
near 1, which is incorrect. Improvement began around 10
augmentations, and plateaued by 20. Since computation
cost was not signiﬁcant, we chose 25 augmentations per-
example for all experiments in the main text.
C. Hyperparameters
The maximum number of iterations for stepping and
projecting are Np = 5 and Mp = 25, and we stop the
outer loop if the change in transform is ever less than
δp = 0.001. When solving Problem 3, we stop if the
gradient is smaller than ϵp = 0.0003. There are also
Fig. 4.
Number of augmentations versus classiﬁer output on a
test example. Lower is better. Performance plateaus at around 25
augmentations, in this example.
learning rate, learning rate decay, and weighting param-
eters used when solving Problem 3. For the objective
function weighting terms, we use β1 = 0.05, β2 =
1, β3 = 1, β4 = 0.1. The weighting terms were tuned
so that the magnitude of the different weighted losses
terms were comparable, and learning rate and number
of iterations were tuned to maximize convergence. All
values used are documented in our code, which can be
found on our project website.
