
===== PAGE 1 =====
Learning to Discern: Imitating Heterogeneous
Human Demonstrations with Preference and
Representation Learning
Sachit Kuhar∗, Shuo Cheng, Shivang Chopra, Matthew Bronars, Danfei Xu
Georgia Institute of Technology
{kuhar, shuocheng, shivangchopra11, mbronars, danfei}@gatech.edu
Abstract: Practical Imitation Learning (IL) systems rely on large human demon-
stration datasets for successful policy learning. However, challenges lie in main-
taining the quality of collected data and addressing the suboptimal nature of some
demonstrations, which can compromise the overall dataset quality and hence the
learning outcome. Furthermore, the intrinsic heterogeneity in human behavior can
produce equally successful but disparate demonstrations, further exacerbating the
challenge of discerning demonstration quality. To address these challenges, this
paper introduces Learning to Discern (L2D), an offline imitation learning frame-
work for learning from demonstrations with diverse quality and style. Given a
small batch of demonstrations with sparse quality labels, we learn a latent rep-
resentation for temporally embedded trajectory segments. Preference learning in
this latent space trains a quality evaluator that generalizes to new demonstrators
exhibiting different styles. Empirically, we show that L2D can effectively assess
and learn from varying demonstrations, thereby leading to improved policy per-
formance across a range of tasks in both simulations and on a physical robot.
Keywords: Imitation Learning, Preference Learning, Manipulation
1
Introduction
Imitation Learning (IL) allows robots to learn complex manipulation skills from offline demonstra-
tion datasets [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]. However, the quality of the demonstrations used for IL will significantly
influence the effectiveness of the learned policies [2, 6, 7]. Practical imitation learning systems must
amass demonstrations from a broad spectrum of human demonstrators [8, 9], ranging from novices
to experts in a given task [10, 11]. Moreover, even experts may complete a task differently, resulting
in disparate demonstrations of equal quality [12, 13, 14]. Therefore, an effective IL algorithm must
learn from demonstrations of varying quality, each further diversified by the unique skillset of the
individual demonstrators.
However, mainstream IL algorithms often make the simplifying assumption that all demonstrations
are uniformly ideal [11]. As a result, policies trained with these algorithms may unknowingly learn
from suboptimal or even contradictory supervisions [11, 14, 15]. Recent work attempts to estimate
expertise by developing unsupervised algorithms to quantify action distribution and variance [6] or
actively soliciting new demonstrations that match with a known expert policy [16]. While these
methods are general in principle, two critical limitations remain. First, estimating demonstrator
expertise without any external quality label is an inherently ill-posed problem. As noted above,
demonstrated behaviors can vary drastically across demonstrators and even across different trials
from the same demonstrator. Neither action variance nor similarity to an expert is sufficient to
capture expertise in such settings. Second, these works only consider state-level features, while
behaviors are better represented in temporal sequences.
∗work done while at Georgia Institute of Technology.
7th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2023), Atlanta, USA.
arXiv:2310.14196v1  [cs.RO]  22 Oct 2023

===== PAGE 2 =====
Figure 1: L2D: Our framework proceeds in three primary stages during training. First, we aug-
ment trajectory segments with temporal embeddings and employ contrastive learning to map these
segments to a latent space. Next, we use preference learning in this latent space to train a quality
critic on sparse preference labels. Finally, we train a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) on the critic’s
outputs where the different modes represent demonstrator quality.
To this end, we present Learning to Discern (L2D), a completely offline method for learning from
heterogeneous demonstrations. L2D can efficiently estimate expertise from limited demonstration
quality labels based on sequence-level latent features. By incorporating temporal embeddings into
trajectory segments, we are able to learn a more meaningful latent representation for long-horizon
manipulation tasks. Preference learning in this latent space trains a quality evaluator that generalizes
across diverse styles of task completion while only requiring a subset of coarsely ranked data. We
demonstrate that our method can not only discern the quality of in-domain data but also identify
high-quality demonstrations from entirely new demonstrators with modes of expertise unseen in
training. We show this empirically in both simulated and real-world robot settings. With L2D, it
becomes feasible to filter high-quality demonstrations from the vast and diverse datasets that are
needed for data-driven IL.
2
Related Work
Imitation Learning with Suboptimal Data. Imitation Learning (IL) [17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22] from
sub-optimal data is an active area of research in robotics. Various works show that near-optimal
policies can be trained if demonstrations are ranked based on their quality [4, 11]. However, manual
annotation of dense reward labels is costly and unscalable. CAIL [23] extrapolates demonstration
quality from a subset of labeled data D′, but still requires a dense ranking of D′. Other works
estimate demonstrator quality in an unsupervised manner (ILEED [6]) or compare demonstrations
to an expert policy (ELICIT [16]). Such unsupervised algorithms do not generalize to equal quality
demonstrations from different modes of task completion. This motivates the need for an IL algorithm
that learns a generalizable quality estimator from a subset of coarsely ranked data.
Preference Learning from Human Demonstrations. Preference learning is a form of supervised
learning that learns rankings from pairwise comparisons [24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29]. When applied
to human demonstration data, preference learning can effectively train a reward function based on
rankings of trajectory segments [30]. Various frameworks utilize this reward function to train poli-
cies through inverse reinforcement learning [31, 32]. To limit manual annotations, some methods
synthetically generate lower-quality data through noise injection [7]. These methods are hampered
by the fact that noise level does not directly translate to preference ranking of trajectories [33]. Our
method, L2D, ranks offline demonstrations using preference learning in a latent space. This allows
us to generalize across diverse styles and modes of task completion with sparse preference labels.
Representation Learning for Data Retrieval. Representation learning, especially with a focus on
robotics, has been widely studied. This area typically explores learning from visual inputs [34], data
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
Figure 2: Filtering Unseen Demonstrations: When faced with unseen demonstrations, L2D parti-
tions the trajectory into segments and augments each with its chronological ordering in the sequence.
The segments are mapped to the latent space learned during training and ranked by the quality critic.
After calculating the mean and variance of ranks in a full trajectory, the trained GMM is employed
to predict a preference label for the unseen demonstration.
augmentation [35], goal-aware prediction [36], and domain-specific information [37]. Recent work
such as that by Du et al. [38] enhances the performance of robot manipulation tasks by first mapping
offline data to a latent space using contrastive learning and then retrieving offline data using that
latent space with task-specific data as queries. Yet, these works do not account for the suboptimality
of given demonstrations in task-specific data and offline data.
3
Problem Setting
We study the imitation learning problem in environments modeled as Markov Decision Processes
(MDP), where S and A denote the state space and the action space, respectively. P : S × A × S →
[0, 1] is the state transition function. The environment emits a binary reward upon task completion.
The learning algorithm does not have access to this signal.
We assume access to a small set of demonstration Dknown = {τi}N
i=1, where a trajectory τi is a se-
quence of transitions with a variable length Lτi given by (s0, a0, s1, a1, . . . , sLτi−1, aLτi−1). Each
trajectory in Dknown is associated with a quality label l ∈L, where L is the set of possible labels
indicating the quality of a trajectory. We divide Dknown into sub-datasets i.e., {DA, DB, DC, . . .}
of similar quality levels, based on the quality labels associated with each trajectory. If dataset A is
considered to be of superior quality compared to B, we denote it as A ≻B. Similarly, we assume
τA ≻τB, provided τA ∈A and τB ∈B.
In this paper, we develop a framework for imitation learning that achieves state-of-the-art perfor-
mance on sub-optimal data by estimating the quality of new demonstrations. More specifically, our
aim is to learn a representation that captures the multimodality from a large dataset of unknown
quality Dunknown and can critique the quality of new demonstrations within the same context. Im-
portantly, our approach operates in an offline learning setting where we do not have access to the
environment, reward signals, or any successful completion of trajectories [6, 1]. This constraint
further underscores the need for our method’s ability to discern and evaluate the quality of demon-
strations without direct interaction or feedback from the environment.
4
Learning to Discern
Imitation Learning (IL) with suboptimal data often leads to inferior task performance. Evaluating
the quality of a demonstrator without supervision is challenging, and manually assigning quality to
demonstrations is impractical. The core component of our method is a preference network Q that
learns to evaluate the quality of a demonstration τ by estimating its ranking label l. As mentioned
above, the key challenges of learning a generalizable demonstration quality estimator are that (1)
it is difficult to capture behavior-level features by assessing individual state-action pairs, especially
for long-horizon manipulation tasks and (2) the demonstrated behaviors are diverse even among
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
demonstrators of similar expertise. In this section, we describe each challenge in more detail and
introduce the components in our method L2D that address the corresponding challenges.
Extracting Behavior Feature through Temporal Contrastive Learning
As we mentioned earlier, estimating the quality of a demonstration by merely observing variance in
states is a poorly-posed problem. Instead, we propose learning a temporal latent space for quality
critique. We utilize a neural network encoder E : RL1×Obs.Dim →RLatent.Dim that maps trajectory
segments {σj = {st}t=i+L1
j,t=i
}i=num segments
j=1
into a d-dimensional latent space. Sampling triplet pairs
for this learning using triplet margin loss [38] poses a challenge: naive sampling based on quality
labels may degrade representation quality. Specifically, long-horizon tasks like Square [11] contain
bottleneck states indifferent to demonstration quality, leading to task-specific regions that don’t ma-
jorly impact overall quality. We use these sampled segments to create triplets of an anchor trajectory
segment σa, a positive trajectory segment σp, and a negative trajectory segment σn which are used
in different contrastive learning strategies:
• Strategy 1: Arbitrary Sampling from Specific Quality Sets: We sample σa and σp from differ-
ent trajectories from a demonstration set A. We then sample the negative trajectory segment σN
from a different demonstration quality set B.
• Strategy 2: Specific Segment Sampling from Arbitrary Quality Sets: We leverage domain-
specific knowledge that certain segments, like initial or final segments, do not influence demon-
stration quality. For instance, in the case of a square task with complete demonstrations, we know
that all demonstrations conclude with the robot placing the square in the cylinder. Thus, we sam-
ple the final segments σa,final from τ 1 and σp,final from τ 2. The negative trajectory segment
σn is sampled such that it is not from the same region but can be sampled from any subset as the
segmented regions themselves do not impact quality.
Position Encoding for Capturing Non-cyclic Behavior
Preference learning is effective for evaluating the quality of unknown and diverse demonstrations,
but we find it struggles with long-horizon manipulation tasks. We posit that this is due to the intrin-
sic non-cyclical nature of these tasks can lead to identical state-action pairs having different quality
labels depending on the trajectory context. To navigate this inherent complexity, we introduce data
augmentations like position encoding for each demonstration state with respect to the entire trajec-
tory. We find that this provides the necessary context to the latent space for comprehensive task
understanding. Let our original observation at any time-step t be denoted as ot ∈Robs.dim. We
introduce position encoding, represented as a real number pt indicating the normalized time-step
(i.e., t/T, where T is the total number of time-steps in the demonstration). We then formulate the
augmented observation o′
t which becomes a vector in Robs.dim+1, defined as o′
t = [ot, pt].
Training Quality Critic
After training the encoder E to learn a latent space that is cognizant of quality-sensitive regions
of the demonstrations, our approach leverages a Quality Critic network Q, defined as a function
Q : Rd →R, that serves as a regressor, mapping the d-dimensional trajectory segment embedding
to a continuous scalar value indicative of the quality of the demonstration. In the training phase,
we utilize pairs of trajectory segments, σA and σB, randomly sampled from datasets DA and DB,
respectively. Each segment is first converted into an embedding and subsequently passed through
Q to obtain a quality score. The pairwise ranking loss [39, 30, 31], capitalizes on these pairs to
compare and learn the relative quality differences between the segments. During the inference stage,
the model computes the quality score of individual segments.
Respresenting Suboptimality as a Gaussian Mixture Model
Demonstrations of varying quality may exhibit mixtures of behaviors in different regions. By being
receptive to individual demonstration regions, our approach allows us to estimate the quality of these
mixed-quality demonstrations, as the overall quality of a demonstration can be viewed as a majority
vote of its constituent parts. This concept can be naturally represented by a Gaussian distribution,
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
where the mean of the Gaussian represents the average quality of segments in a demonstration. After
learning the latent space encoder E and quality critic Q, we train a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)
G. We sample a sufficient number of segments (⌈L
L1 × k⌉) from each demonstration in Dknown and
pass each segment through encoder E and quality critic Q to obtain a scalar value. These values
represent the quality of different regions within the demonstration. We then map these scalar values
into sets that correspond to demonstrations of different qualities (i.e., DA, DB, DC, etc) and train
the GMM where different Gaussians correspond to different qualities.
Estimating Quality of Unseen Demonstrations
Given a new unseen demonstration τ, we generate a set of scalar values using Q(E(sampler(τ))),
with each value estimating the quality of a specific region within the demonstration. We then esti-
mate the probability of each value with respect to the trained GMM and assign each scalar to the set
with the maximum probability. Finally, we use a heuristic to determine whether the demonstration
should be used for training the policy. As an example, in our robomimic experiments, for an unseen
demonstration, we count the percentage of segments assigned to the ’good’ quality set. Demonstra-
tions are then rated based on this count. We subsequently rank all demonstrations based on this score
and select the top demonstrations for training the IL algorithm BC-RNN. This procedure ensures the
inclusion of demonstrations that predominantly exhibit desirable behavior.
5
Experimental Evaluation
We empirically validate whether L2D can learn effective representations that enable accurate dis-
crimination of high-quality demonstrations from the pool of available demonstrations, which vary
in quality. We show that distinct components of the multi-component architecture of L2D signifi-
cantly contribute to its effectiveness with an ablation study. We demonstrate that L2D can discern
high-quality demonstrations from both seen and unseen demonstrators and compare against base-
lines. Finally, we collect human demonstrations for real and simulated manipulation tasks to test the
method’s applicability in more realistic scenarios.
Figure 3: Good (green) and
Bad (red) demonstrations for
the Robomimic’s Square task.
Experiment setup.
We use the Robomimic [11] for all experi-
ments, which include a range of tasks like Lifting, Square Nut As-
sembly, and Can Pick-and-Place collected from multiple human op-
erators of varying skill levels. We specifically focus on the Square
Nut Assembly task where Robomimic provides us with 300 demon-
strations, with 50 from each of the 6 operators. These 300 demon-
strations are categorized into 3 sets of 100 demonstrations each and
are labeled as ’good’, ’ok’, or ’bad’ based on the execution quality.
Using higher quality demonstrations for training leads to a higher
success rate in robomimic tasks [11]. To evaluate the different fil-
tering methods, we use RNN-based behavioral cloning (BC-RNN)
to train a policy on selected demonstrations and report the success
rate (SR) (see appendix D for details).
We bifurcate the identification of high-quality demonstrations into two scenarios: (A) Familiar
demonstrators. The demonstrations in each set originate from the same demonstrators, i.e., both
Dknown and Dunknown have demonstrations each for varying quality from the same demonstrators.
(B) Unseen demonstrators. The demonstrations in each set originate from different demonstrators,
i.e., both Dknown and Dunknown have demonstrations each for varying quality, but they are provided
exclusively from different demonstrators. We adapt the robomimic dataset for these scenarios as fol-
lows: In both cases, we divide the 300 available demonstrations into two sets of Dknown and Dunknown.
In the first case, we perform this division uniformly such that all 6 operators provide an equal num-
ber of demonstrations into either set. However, in the second case, the demonstrations in each set
originate from different demonstrators, i.e., both Dknown and Dunknown have 50 demonstrations each
for varying quality, but they are provided exclusively from different demonstrators.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
Baselines.
We benchmark the performance of our proposed method, L2D, against two state-of-the-
art methods for learning from mixed-quality demonstrations. ILEED [6] employs an unsupervised
expertise estimation approach to identify good demonstrations. ELICIT [16] actively filters new
demonstrations based on whether the state-action pairs match the prediction of an expert policy. We
also compare against adaptations of preference learning and contrastive learning methods. Prefer-
ence Learning baseline is a best effort adaptation of TREX [31] reward learning method and uses
pairwise ranking loss [30, 40]. Contrastive Learning uses triplet margin loss samples from distinct
quality sets [38] for training and performs filtering by using cosine-similarity between encodings of
trajectory segments. As additional baselines, we compare against a naive uniform sampling strategy
from the dataset of unknown quality demonstrations, as well as an oracle baseline representing the
ideal scenario where the highest-quality demonstrations can be perfectly identified.
5.1
Component Ablation
In our ablation study, we dissect L2D to evaluate the individual contribution of each component. By
comparing the Wasserstein distances between the distributions corresponding scores generated by
Q, for sub-dataset with specific labels within Dunknown, we quantify the quality of the representa-
tion learned. A higher Wasserstein distance indicates enhanced separability between trajectories of
different qualities, making it easier to identify high-quality trajectories. In Robomimic tasks, better
quality demonstrations result in a higher SR when training a policy using BC methods [11]. There-
fore, higher total Wasserstein distances indicate more effective learned representations for filtering.
Table 1 and Figure 4 show our findings and the corresponding distribution visualizations, reveal that
L2D consistently outperforms the preference learning approach in unseen demonstrator experiment
setup 5.2. The histogram visualizations plot the distributions of trajectory segment scores output by
Q for each quality subset in Dunknown. Adding the S1 Contrastive component and positional encoding
enhances the quality of the learned latent space, confirming the necessity of contextual understand-
ing for long-horizon non-cyclic robot manipulation tasks. The final addition of the S2 Contrastive
component underlines the benefits of using well-crafted positive and negative pairs for contrastive
learning. These pairs, even from demonstrations of differing quality, lead to better representations,
highlighting the importance of understanding that some regions of demonstrations do not influence
the quality. This lends support to the idea of leveraging commonalities across all demonstrations to
regularize our learning process, thereby avoiding overfitting specific demonstrator biases.
Method
Good vs. Okay ↑
Good vs. Bad↑
Okay vs. Bad↑
Total Distance↑
Preference
0.130
0.143
0.147
0.420
+ S1 Contrastive
0.337
0.213
0.414
0.964
+ Position Encoding
0.535
0.649
0.589
1.773
+ S2 Contrastive
0.604
0.848
0.417
1.869
Table 1: Wasserstein Distance Comparison for the Robomimic Square Task: The table showcases the
capability of different methods, including the incremental introduction of contrastive components,
to discern among demonstrations of quality levels (good, okay, bad) from unseen demonstrators.
Figure 4: Histogram Distribution Visualization: Comparing demonstration quality scores (good,
okay, bad) for the Square task from unseen demonstrators. The left histogram represents a conven-
tional preference learning approach, while the right highlights the efficacy of our method, L2D
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
5.2
Main Results
L2D can identify unseen high-quality demonstrations from familiar demonstrators. We trained
L2D on the known demonstrations Dknown and tested its ability to filter unseen demonstrations
Dunknown from the same demonstrators. Our results, as presented in Table 2, indicate that L2D
successfully identifies 43 out of the top 50 high-quality demonstrations from the pool. We find that
our method outperforms ILEED [6], reinforcing the idea that using preferences over an unsuper-
vised approach leads to better representations. Finally, we observe that our method achieves an
oracle-level success rate (SR) when training the policy on filtered data.
Method
Success Rate
Naive
0.44
ILEED
0.54
Our Method
0.66
Oracle
0.66
Method
Good
Okay
Bad
Naive
68
16
16
Our Method
93
4
3
Oracle
100
0
0
Table 2: Identifying Unseen High-Quality Demonstrations from Familiar Demonstrators:
Comparison of methods to identify high-quality demonstrations in an unseen dataset. The right
table presents the quality categorization of selected demonstrations with the best 50 demonstrations
from Dknown, while the left displays the imitation learning policy’s success rate when trained on a
combined set of best-known and selected demonstrations.
L2D can identify high-quality demonstrations from unseen demonstrators. In a practical situ-
ation, a policy may be trained on data provided by previously unseen demonstrators. This is chal-
lenging because each demonstrator may possess a unique style of execution and a diverse range of
demonstration quality. We evaluated L2D in this setting by training it and the baselines on Dknown
and then using them to filter the top 50 demonstrations from Dunknown. Table 3 shows that our
proposed method L2D significantly outperforms both contrastive learning and preference learning
methods, which in turn outperforms naive sampling. In comparison with the ELICIT method [16],
which learns only from high-quality data, L2D demonstrates superior performance, suggesting that it
is more adaptable to variation in demonstration quality and demonstrator style. Notably, the success
rate achieved by our method is only marginally inferior to that of the oracle, further supporting our
claim that L2D can effectively discern high-quality demonstrations from unfamiliar demonstrators.
Method
Success Rate
Naive
0.20
Contrastive
0.36
Preference
0.38
Elicit
0.38
Our Method
0.44
Oracle
0.46
Method
Good
Okay
Bad
Naive
18/50
16/50
16/50
Contrastive
23/50
20/50
7/50
Preference
27/50
20/50
3/50
Elicit
23/50
20/50
7/50
Our Method
39/50
8/50
3/50
Oracle
50/50
0/50
0/50
Table 3: Identifying Unseen High-Quality Demonstrations from New Demonstrators: A com-
parison of methods to discern top demonstrations from an unfamiliar source. The left table displays
the imitation learning policy’s success rates, while the right categorizes the quality of demonstra-
tions selected. L2D’s performance approaches that of the oracle, highlighting its effectiveness in
recognizing quality across unfamiliar demonstrator styles
5.3
Learning from Real-World Demonstrations
We evaluate the ability of L2D to estimate the quality of demonstrations in realistic scenarios, com-
pared to controlled simulated environments. We gathered new human demonstrations for tasks such
as Square Nut Assembly in simulated environments while Lifting and Stacking were demonstrated
in real-world environments using actual robots, all performed by a diverse group of operators. These
operators performed independently, without leveraging knowledge from others’ demonstrations. We
then trained our method on a subset of these demonstrations and used it to filter the unseen dataset
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Figure 5: Demo Quality Estimation. We show the predicted quality for real-world demonstrations
of the Stack task. The trajectory segments with less optimal behaviors (e.g., jittering or waving) will
be assigned with lower scores (marked with red bounding boxes).
for high-quality demonstrations. Please refer to Sec. D in the Appendix for more training details.
The effectiveness of our method is evaluated based on the improvement in success rate after the
integration of these newly identified demonstrations. Our experimental results, depicted in Table 4,
suggest that L2D substantially improves the performance of imitation learning policy in realistic
scenarios. In Figure 5 we visualize the quality prediction for two stacking demonstrations and show
that L2D can correctly identify high-quality demonstrations based on sparse labels.
Environment
Task
Method
High-Quality Demo Selection (%)
SR (%)
Simulated
Square
Naive Sampling
37
10
Simulated
Square
Our Method
95
32
Real
Stack
Naive Sampling
33
50
Real
Stack
Our Method
97
80
Real
Lift
Naive Sampling
33
30
Real
Lift
Our Method
45
53
Table 4: Performance comparison of naive sampling and our method in terms of high-quality demon-
stration selection from an unknown dataset and SR increase for two tasks (Can Pick and Place and
Lift) on a real robot and one task (Square) in a simulation.
6
Limitations
Our method filters out entire demonstrations based on their assessed quality, ensuring that only
high-quality data is used for analysis. However, this approach may be overly simplistic, assuming
that a low-quality demonstration contains no high-quality segments. In reality, demonstrations often
encompass diverse tasks and behaviors, and even a low-quality demonstration may contain sections
that could provide useful training data. Additionally, our method assumes a clear distinction between
high and low-quality demonstrations, but the line separating the two is often blurred, depending
on the complexity of the task and the specificity of the demonstrator’s style. Addressing these
limitations could lead to even better-learned representations.
7
Conclusion
We presented Learning to Discern (L2D), a novel method for efficiently estimating expertise from
heterogeneous demonstration data in IL without access to the environment and reward signals. L2D
employs sequence-level latent features and temporal embeddings to learn a robust latent represen-
tation of complex tasks. With a quality evaluator trained in this latent space, our method can gen-
eralize across varied task completion styles and identify high-quality demonstrations, even from
new, unseen modes of expertise. This study demonstrates the potential of L2D to filter high-quality
demonstrations from vast and diverse datasets, marking a significant advancement in the field of
data-centric robotics.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
References
[1] S. Levine, A. Kumar, G. Tucker, and J. Fu. Offline reinforcement learning: Tutorial, review,
and perspectives on open problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.01643, 2020.
[2] A. Mandlekar, D. Xu, J. Wong, S. Nasiriany, C. Wang, R. Kulkarni, L. Fei-Fei, S. Savarese,
Y. Zhu, and R. Mart´ın-Mart´ın. What matters in learning from offline human demonstrations
for robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.03298, 2021.
[3] S. Emmons, B. Eysenbach, I. Kostrikov, and S. Levine. Rvs: What is essential for offline rl via
supervised learning? arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.10751, 2021.
[4] A. Kumar, J. Hong, A. Singh, and S. Levine. When should we prefer offline reinforcement
learning over behavioral cloning? arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05618, 2022.
[5] D. Ghosh, A. Ajay, P. Agrawal, and S. Levine. Offline rl policies should be trained to be
adaptive. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 7513–7530. PMLR, 2022.
[6] M. Beliaev, A. Shih, S. Ermon, D. Sadigh, and R. Pedarsani. Imitation learning by estimating
expertise of demonstrators. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1732–
1748. PMLR, 2022.
[7] D. S. Brown, W. Goo, and S. Niekum.
Better-than-demonstrator imitation learning via
automatically-ranked demonstrations.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Robot
Learning, 2019.
[8] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, J. Dabis, C. Finn, K. Gopalakrishnan, K. Haus-
man, A. Herzog, J. Hsu, et al. Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[9] S. Cabi, S. G. Colmenarejo, A. Novikov, K. Konyushkova, S. Reed, R. Jeong, K. Zolna, Y. Ay-
tar, D. Budden, M. Vecerik, et al. Scaling data-driven robotics with reward sketching and batch
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.12200, 2019.
[10] A. Mandlekar, Y. Zhu, A. Garg, J. Booher, M. Spero, A. Tung, J. Gao, J. Emmons, A. Gupta,
E. Orbay, et al. Roboturk: A crowdsourcing platform for robotic skill learning through imita-
tion. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 879–893. PMLR, 2018.
[11] A. Mandlekar, D. Xu, J. Wong, S. Nasiriany, C. Wang, R. Kulkarni, L. Fei-Fei, S. Savarese,
Y. Zhu, and R. Mart´ın-Mart´ın. What matters in learning from offline human demonstrations
for robot manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2021.
[12] A. Mandlekar, D. Xu, R. Mart´ın-Mart´ın, S. Savarese, and L. Fei-Fei. Learning to generalize
across long-horizon tasks from human demonstrations. Robotics: Science and Systems, 2020.
[13] N. M. Shafiullah, Z. Cui, A. A. Altanzaya, and L. Pinto. Behavior transformers: Cloning k
modes with one stone. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:22955–22968,
2022.
[14] C. Chi, S. Feng, Y. Du, Z. Xu, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, and S. Song. Diffusion policy:
Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[15] P. Florence, C. Lynch, A. Zeng, O. A. Ramirez, A. Wahid, L. Downs, A. Wong, J. Lee, I. Mor-
datch, and J. Tompson. Implicit behavioral cloning. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages
158–168. PMLR, 2022.
[16] K. Gandhi, S. Karamcheti, M. Liao, and D. Sadigh. Eliciting compatible demonstrations for
multi-human imitation learning. In K. Liu, D. Kulic, and J. Ichnowski, editors, Proceedings
of The 6th Conference on Robot Learning, volume 205 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 1981–1991. PMLR, 14–18 Dec 2023. URL https://proceedings.mlr.
press/v205/gandhi23a.html.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
[17] B. D. Argall, S. Chernova, M. Veloso, and B. Browning. A survey of robot learning from
demonstration. Robotics and autonomous systems, 57(5):469–483, 2009.
[18] D. A. Pomerleau. Efficient training of artificial neural networks for autonomous navigation.
Neural computation, 3(1):88–97, 1991.
[19] S. Ross, G. Gordon, and D. Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and structured predic-
tion to no-regret online learning. In Proceedings of the fourteenth international conference on
artificial intelligence and statistics, pages 627–635. JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceed-
ings, 2011.
[20] C. Finn, S. Levine, and P. Abbeel. Guided cost learning: Deep inverse optimal control via
policy optimization. In International conference on machine learning, pages 49–58. PMLR,
2016.
[21] J. Ho and S. Ermon. Generative adversarial imitation learning. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 29, 2016.
[22] Y. Ding, C. Florensa, P. Abbeel, and M. Phielipp.
Goal-conditioned imitation learning.
Advances in neural information processing systems, 32, 2019.
[23] S. Zhang, Z. Cao, D. Sadigh, and Y. Sui. Confidence-aware imitation learning from demon-
strations with varying optimality. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:
12340–12350, 2021.
[24] T. Joachims. Optimizing search engines using clickthrough data. In Proceedings of the eighth
ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 133–
142, 2002.
[25] J. F¨urnkranz and E. H¨ullermeier.
Pairwise preference learning and ranking.
In Machine
Learning: ECML 2003: 14th European Conference on Machine Learning, Cavtat-Dubrovnik,
Croatia, September 22-26, 2003. Proceedings 14, pages 145–156. Springer, 2003.
[26] W. Chu and Z. Ghahramani. Preference learning with gaussian processes. In Proceedings of
the 22nd international conference on Machine learning, pages 137–144, 2005.
[27] N. Houlsby, F. Husz´ar, Z. Ghahramani, and M. Lengyel. Bayesian active learning for classifi-
cation and preference learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1112.5745, 2011.
[28] K. Lee, L. Smith, and P. Abbeel. Pebble: Feedback-efficient interactive reinforcement learning
via relabeling experience and unsupervised pre-training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.05091,
2021.
[29] C. Kim, J. Park, J. Shin, H. Lee, P. Abbeel, and K. Lee. Preference transformer: Modeling
human preferences using transformers for rl. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.00957, 2023.
[30] P. F. Christiano, J. Leike, T. Brown, M. Martic, S. Legg, and D. Amodei. Deep reinforcement
learning from human preferences. Advances in neural information processing systems, 30,
2017.
[31] D. S. Brown, W. Goo, P. Nagarajan, and S. Niekum.
Extrapolating beyond suboptimal
demonstrations via inverse reinforcement learning from observations. In K. Chaudhuri and
R. Salakhutdinov, editors, Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine
Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 783–792, Long
Beach, California, USA, 09–15 Jun 2019. PMLR. URL http://proceedings.mlr.press/
v97/brown19a.html.
[32] C. Wirth, R. Akrour, G. Neumann, J. F¨urnkranz, et al. A survey of preference-based reinforce-
ment learning methods. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 18(136):1–46, 2017.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
[33] L. Chen, R. Paleja, and M. Gombolay. Learning from suboptimal demonstration via self-
supervised reward regression. In Conference on robot learning, pages 1262–1277. PMLR,
2021.
[34] S. Nair, A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, C. Finn, and A. Gupta. R3m: A universal visual represen-
tation for robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.12601, 2022.
[35] M. Laskin, K. Lee, A. Stooke, L. Pinto, P. Abbeel, and A. Srinivas. Reinforcement learning
with augmented data. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:19884–19895,
2020.
[36] S. Nair, S. Savarese, and C. Finn. Goal-aware prediction: Learning to model what matters. In
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 7207–7219. PMLR, 2020.
[37] R. Jonschkowski and O. Brock.
Learning state representations with robotic priors.
Autonomous Robots, 39:407–428, 2015.
[38] M. Du, S. Nair, D. Sadigh, and C. Finn. Behavior retrieval: Few-shot imitation learning by
querying unlabeled datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.08742, 2023.
[39] R. A. Bradley and M. E. Terry. Rank analysis of incomplete block designs: I. the method of
paired comparisons. Biometrika, 39(3/4):324–345, 1952.
[40] B. Ibarz, J. Leike, T. Pohlen, G. Irving, S. Legg, and D. Amodei. Reward learning from human
preferences and demonstrations in atari. Advances in neural information processing systems,
31, 2018.
[41] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba.
Adam: A method for stochastic optimization.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
A
Additional Ablation Studies
To further investigate the effect of different architectural components and design choices in our pro-
posed method, L2D, we focus specifically on the roles of S2 contrastive learning and data augmen-
tation. The experimental setup is the same as described in Section 5: identification of high-quality
demonstrations from unseen demonstrator experiment on the Square task. We use LSTM+Self At-
tention architecture with CLS token for contrastive learning followed by a simple MLP encoder
for preference learning. The baseline for this experiment does not use S2 contrastive learning or
data augmentation. We study the following design choices of L2D: (1) S2.Initial: Initial trajectory
segment similarity; (2) S2.Final: Final trajectory segment similarity; and (3) Data augmentations:
location-sensitive time warping for segments used in S2 contrastive. As done in Section 5.1, we sys-
tematically examine the increase in separability of demonstration quality from new demonstrators
by measuring the Wasserstein distances between trajectories of different qualities under different
configurations. Higher distance indicates better separability and quality of learned representations.
S2.Initial
S2.Final
Data Aug
G vs O
G vs B
O vs B
Sum(↑)
No
No
No
0.12
0.24
0.36
0.72
Yes
No
No
0.19
0.28
0.4
0.87
Yes
No
Yes
0.16
0.4
0.36
0.92
Yes
Yes
Yes
0.28
0.48
0.48
1.24
Table 5: Impact of Trajectory Segment Similarity and Data Augmentation. The ablation study
demonstrates the value added by incorporating initial and final trajectory segment similarity using
S2 contrastive and location-sensitive time warping into our method. Each component enhances the
separability of demonstration quality from new demonstrators, leading to superior representations
and increased total Wasserstein distance.
Table 5 shows that as we integrate each element of L2D, the total Wasserstein distance increases,
indicating improved separability of demonstration quality. The full configuration with both forms
of trajectory similarity and time-warping augmentation achieves the highest total distance. This val-
idates the effectiveness of L2D’s design choices in improving the quality of learned representations.
B
Real Robot Demonstrations
Figure 6: Real Robot Execution. We show the rollout results of the policies trained with the
demonstrations selected by our method and naive sampling for the Stack task.
We collected physical robot demonstrations for the Lift and Stack tasks and simulated demonstra-
tions for the Square task to provide a more realistic setting for evaluating our method. The Lift task
had 60 demonstrations in the training set Dknown and 60 demonstrations in the test set Dunknown. The
Square and Stack tasks had 100 demonstrations each in Dknown and Dunknown. The labeled demon-
stration data had three quality types: good, okay, and bad. The real robot demonstration data was
high-dimensional, containing camera images, gripper position, end-effector pose, joint positions,
and joint velocities of the robot arm. After selecting high-quality demonstrations using our L2D
approach and baseline approaches, we trained an imitation learning (IL) policy on the best demon-
strations from Dknown combined with the selected demonstrations from Dunknown. We report the
success rate of the trained IL policy on the real robot task.
For the Stack task, we compare the performance of our method with naive sampling. Our results
show that policies learned from higher-quality demonstrations exhibit robust and efficient task com-
pletion, achieving an 80% success rate over 10 trials. Conversely, policies learned from demon-
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
strations selected through naive sampling occasionally display peculiar behaviors, such as waving
around the target position or dropping the grasped cube at unsafe heights. Consequently, these
behaviors contribute to a lower success rate of 50%. Our results demonstrate that the quality of
demonstrations plays a crucial role in the performance of learned policies on real robots. By lever-
aging our L2D approach to identify high-quality demonstrations, we can train policies that achieve
more robust and efficient task completion.
C
L2D Hyperparameters
Hyperparameter
Default
discriminator learning rate
0.0001
label noise for Q
0.1 [31]
discriminator num segments
20000
discriminator segment length
48
discriminator batch size
128
discriminator training steps
500000
initial trajectory segment len
12
final trajectory segment len
6
use pos encoding
True
discriminator embedding size
12
Architecture
[LSTM,2 MLPs,Flatten(), 2 MLPs]
[2MLPs]
Table 6: Hyperparameters used for training L2D to perform Robomimic based ablations.
D
Imitation Learning Policy Training Details
Hyperparameter
Default
Batch Size
16
Learning rate (LR)
1e-4
Num Epoch
1000
Train Seq Length
10
MLP Dims
[400, 400]
Image Encoder - Wrist View
ResNet-18
Image Feature Dim
64
GMM Num Modes
5
GMM Min Std
0.01
GMM Std Activation
Softplus
Table 7: Hyperparameters for L2D
We choose the default BC-RNN model setting
from Robomimic benchmark [11] for learning
policies. For simulation tasks the agents only
use low-dimensional observation (e.g., robot
proprioception, object poses), the epochs are
set to 2000 with batch size 100, and we test the
agents by running rollout with a maximal hori-
zon of 500 in every 50 epochs. For real-world
tasks, we also include the RGB color observa-
tions from the three cameras (two at the side,
one at the robot’s wrist) and the epochs are set
to 500. All networks are trained using Adam
optimizers [41].
For the Robomimic Square task on Multi-
Human Dataset experiments in Section 5, there is an equal 150-150 demonstration split. L2D
trains on 150 known demonstrations and is tasked to select the demonstrations that belong to the
“good” quality from the set of 150 unknown demonstrations. Familiar demonstrator experiment in
Table 2, aims to test the IL policy’s performance when it has access to a combination of known and
unknown demonstrations. Specifically, BC-RNN is provided with 100 demonstrations: the top 50
from Dknown and another 50 chosen from Dunknown. For the unfamiliar demonstrator experiment in
Table 3, BC-RNN trains exclusively on 50 demonstrations selected from Dunknown.
Once we have filtered demonstrations using different methods (including proposed method and base-
lines) and consistent heuristics across methods, we employ Behaviour Cloning for training. We use
RNN-based behavioral cloning (BC-RNN) to evaluate algorithm performance using subsets based
on demonstrator quality as prior works show [6, 11, 16] it is effective at handling mixed quality data.
13
