
===== PAGE 1 =====
DROID: A Large-Scale In-The-Wild
Robot Manipulation Dataset
https://droid-dataset.github.io
Alexander Khazatsky∗,1, Karl Pertsch∗,1,2, Suraj Nair1,3, Ashwin Balakrishna3, Sudeep Dasari4,
Siddharth Karamcheti1, Soroush Nasiriany5, Mohan Kumar Srirama4, Lawrence Yunliang Chen2, Kirsty Ellis6,
Peter David Fagan7, Joey Hejna1, Masha Itkina3, Marion Lepert1, Jason Ma14, Patrick Tree Miller3,
Jimmy Wu8, Suneel Belkhale1, Shivin Dass5, Huy Ha1, Abraham Lee2, Youngwoon Lee2,16, Arhan Jain9,
Marius Memmel9, Sungjae Park10, Ilija Radosavovic2, Kaiyuan Wang11, Albert Zhan6, Kevin Black2,
Cheng Chi1, Kyle Hatch3, Shan Lin11, Jingpei Lu11, Abdul Rehman7, Pannag R Sanketi12,
Archit Sharma1, Cody Simpson3, Quan Vuong12, Homer Walke2, Blake Wulfe3, Ted Xiao12, Jonathan Yang1,
Arefeh Yavary13, Tony Z. Zhao1, Christopher Agia1, Rohan Baijal9, Mateo Guaman Castro9, Daphne Chen9,
Qiuyu Chen9, Trinity Chung2, Jaimyn Drake2, Ethan Paul Foster1, Jensen Gao1, Vitor Guizilini3,
David Antonio Herrera1, Minho Heo10, Kyle Hsu1, Jiaheng Hu5, Muhammad Zubair Irshad3, Donovon Jackson3,
Charlotte Le2, Yunshuang Li14, Kevin Lin1, Roy Lin2, Zehan Ma2, Abhiram Maddukuri5, Suvir Mirchandani1,
Daniel Morton1, Tony Nguyen3, Abby O’Neill2, Rosario Scalise9, Derick Seale3, Victor Son1, Stephen Tian1,
Andrew Wang2, Yilin Wu4, Annie Xie1, Jingyun Yang1, Patrick Yin9, Yunchu Zhang9,
Osbert Bastani14, Glen Berseth6, Jeannette Bohg1, Ken Goldberg2, Abhinav Gupta4, Abhishek Gupta9,
Dinesh Jayaraman14, Joseph J. Lim10, Jitendra Malik2, Roberto Martín-Martín5, Subramanian Ramamoorthy7,
Dorsa Sadigh1, Shuran Song1,15, Jiajun Wu1, Yuke Zhu5, Thomas Kollar3, Sergey Levine2, Chelsea Finn1
Bathroom
DROID
Distributed Robot 
Interaction Dataset
564 Scenes
76k Episodes
52 Buildings
86 Tasks / Verbs
13 Institutions
Dining Room
Bedroom
Laboratory
Laundry Room
Office
Kitchen
Fig. 1: We introduce DROID (Distributed Robot Interaction Dataset), an “in-the-wild” robot manipulation dataset with 76k trajectories or
350 hours of interaction data, collected across 564 scenes, 86 tasks, and 52 buildings over the course of 12 months. Each DROID episode
contains three synchronized RGB camera streams, camera calibration, depth information, and natural language instructions. We demonstrate
that training with DROID leads to policies with higher performance, greater robustness, and improved generalization ability. We open source
the full dataset, pre-trained model checkpoints, and a detailed guide for reproducing our robot setup.
Abstract—
The creation of large, diverse, high-quality robot
manipulation datasets is an important stepping stone on the path
toward more capable and robust robotic manipulation policies.
However, creating such datasets is challenging: collecting robot
∗Project Co-leads, correspondence to alexkhaz@stanford.edu,
pertsch@berkeley.edu
manipulation data in diverse environments poses logistical and
safety challenges and requires substantial investments in hardware
and human labour. As a result, even the most general robot
manipulation policies today are mostly trained on data collected
in a small number of environments with limited scene and task
diversity. In this work, we introduce DROID (Distributed Robot
Interaction Dataset), a diverse robot manipulation dataset with
arXiv:2403.12945v2  [cs.RO]  22 Apr 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
76k demonstration trajectories or 350 hours of interaction data,
collected across 564 scenes and 86 tasks by 50 data collectors in
North America, Asia, and Europe over the course of 12 months.
We demonstrate that training with DROID leads to policies with
higher performance and improved generalization ability. We open
source the full dataset, policy learning code, and a detailed guide
for reproducing our robot hardware setup.
I. INTRODUCTION
A key feature of robot manipulation policies is their ability to
generalize, i.e., their ability to perform a desired manipulation
task under new lighting conditions, in new environments, or
with new objects. Training policies that are robust to such
variations is a crucial step towards the deployment of robots
in everyday environments and may bring us closer to every
roboticist’s dream: robot models that can be downloaded
and “just work” when tested on a new robot setup. A
central ingredient for training such generalizable policies is
diverse training data: in computer vision and natural language
processing, training on large and diverse datasets scraped from
the internet yields models that work in a wide range of new
tasks. Similarly, in robot manipulation, a number of recent
works have demonstrated that larger, more diverse robot training
datasets enable us to push the envelope on policy generalization,
including positive transfer to new objects, instructions, scenes,
and embodiments [1, 2, 14, 36, 38, 39, 47, 63]. This suggests
that an important stepping stone on the path toward more
capable and robust robotic manipulation policies is the creation
of large, diverse, high-quality robot manipulation datasets.
However, creating such datasets is challenging: in contrast to
vision or language data, training manipulation policies typically
requires robot manipulation data with recorded observations
and actions, which cannot be easily scraped from the internet.
Collecting robot manipulation data in diverse environments
poses logistical and safety challenges when moving robots
outside of controlled lab environments. Additionally, collecting
data at scale requires substantial investments in hardware
and human labour for supervision, particularly for collecting
demonstration data. As a result, even the most general robot
manipulation policies today are mostly trained on data collected
in controlled, lab-like environments with limited scene and
task diversity. To enable the next level of generalizable
robot manipulation policy learning, the robot manipulation
community needs more diverse datasets, collected across a
wide range of environments and tasks.
In this work, we introduce DROID (Distributed Robot
Interaction Dataset), a robot manipulation dataset of unprece-
dented diversity (see Fig. 1). DROID consist of 76k demon-
stration trajectories or 350 hours of interaction data, collected
across 564 scenes, 52 buildings and 86 tasks. DROID was
collected by 18 research labs in North America, Asia, and
Affiliations: 1Stanford University; 2University of California, Berkeley;
3Toyota Research Institute; 4Carnegie Mellon University; 5University of
Texas, Austin; 6University of Montreal; 7University of Edinburgh; 8Princeton
University; 9University of Washington; 10Korea Advanced Institute of Science
& Technology (KAIST); 11University of California, San Diego; 12Google
DeepMind; 13University of California, Davis; 14University of Pennsylvania;
15Columbia University; 16Yonsei University
Europe over the course of 12 months. To streamline distributed
data collection and ensure applicability of the final dataset to
a wide range of research settings, all data is collected on the
same robot hardware stack based on the popular Franka Panda
robot arm. Each episode contains three camera views, depth
information, camera calibration, and language annotations.
In experiments across 6 tasks and 4 locations, from labs
to offices and real households, we find that DROID boosts
policy performance, robustness and generalizability by 20% on
average over state-of-the-art approaches that leverage existing
large-scale robot manipulation datasets [39]. We open-source
the full DROID dataset under CC-BY 4.0 license, code for
training policies using the dataset, and a detailed guide for
reproducing our complete robot software and hardware setup.
II. RELATED WORK
a) Large datasets in machine learning: The rapid progress
in machine learning has been closely tied to the construction
of large and diverse datasets. Examples include ImageNet [11],
Kitti [18], Ego4D [19] and LAION [46] in computer vision,
Common Crawl [43] and The Pile [17] in natural language
processing, and ShapeNet [5] and Objaverse [9, 10] in 3D
modeling. Key to their impact is their size and diversity: by
enabling training on larger and more diverse data, they push the
capabilities and robustness of machine learning models. With
DROID we aim to continue this trend for robot manipulation
and provide a large and diverse robot manipulation dataset to
spur progress on generalizable policy learning.
b) Robot learning datasets: A number of prior works
introduce datasets for robot learning of various sizes and
diversity levels (see Table I). Broadly, these can be categorized
into datasets collected autonomously via scripted and semi-
random behaviors or learned agents [3, 8, 20, 26, 27, 32, 40],
and datasets collected via human teleoperation [1, 2, 13, 14,
24, 36, 50, 59]. Multiple works focus on increasing dataset
diversity: RH20T [14] collects data across 33 tasks in 7 table-
top scenes and BridgeV2 [59] collects data in 24 scenes.1
While these datasets increase diversity, most of their data is
collected in a small number of scenes in a single research lab
or building.
More recently, there has been a larger effort on pooling
existing robot datasets into a coherent format, the Open
X-Embodiment dataset (OXE) [39]. Albeit larger in scale
than prior robot datasets, the OXE dataset still consists of
individual datasets with few scenes, thus totalling around 300
scenes at the time of writing. Our goal with the DROID
dataset is to significantly increase the scene diversity as well
1Note that prior works use various definitions for what constitutes a “task”
and what constitutes a “scene”. In this work, we use the number of unique
verbs extracted from the language instructions to represent the number of
tasks, which is more scalable than manually defining tasks [59] yet often
more reflective of the behavior diversity than e.g., counting the number of
verb-object combinations [2] (see Fig. 3 for DROID’s verb distribution as an
example). For scenes, we only count a scene as new if there is a substantial
change of the robot’s workspace, e.g., if it gets transported to a new corner
of the kitchen or a new room altogether, but not if only the arrangement of
objects in front of the robot or the table cloth changes.

===== PAGE 3 =====
Dataset
# Traj.
# Verbs
# Scenes
Lang. Instruct.
Cam. Calibration
Public Robot
Collection
MIME [50]
8.3k
20
1
✗
✗
✓
human teleop
RoboTurk [36]
2.1k
2
1
✗
✗
✓
human teleop
RoboNet [8]
162k
n/a
10
✗
✗
✓
scripted
MT-Opt [26, 27]
800k
2
1
✗
✗
✓
scripted & learned
BridgeData [13]
7.2k
4
12
✓
✗
✓
human teleop
BC-Z [24]
26k
3
1
✓
✗
✗
human teleop
RT-1 [2]
130k
2
2
✓
✗
✗
human teleop
RH20T [14]
13k2
33
7
✓
✓
✓
human teleop
RoboSet [1]
98.5k
9
11
✓
✗
✓
30% human / 70% scripted
BridgeData V2 [59]
60.1k
82
24
✓
✗
✓
85% human / 15% scripted
DobbE [47]∗
5.6k
6
216
✓
n/a
(✓)
human tool-based
Open X-Embodiment [39]†
1.4M
217
311
(✓)
✗
(✓)
dataset aggregation
DROID (ours)
76k
86
564
✓
✓
✓
human teleop
Table I: Comparison to existing datasets for robot manipulation. “# Scenes” refers to the number of unique robot work spaces, e.g., different
kitchens count as different scenes, but rearrangement of objects does not. See Section II for a detailed discussion of the definition of “Tasks”
and “Scenes”. DROID offers high diversity in both, the number of verbs and scenes. ∗non-robot, tool-based data collection, †not a dataset in
itself, but aggregation of existing datasets, including most previous rows in this table.
as scene realism by collecting data across a wide array of
real world buildings in a diverse set of geographic locations.
As a result, DROID contains data from 564 scenes across
52 buildings, a substantial increase compared to any existing
robot manipulation dataset.
Collecting such data “in-the-wild” is more common for robot
navigation and autonomous driving [4, 18, 28, 48, 49, 55, 57,
64] and enables training of policies that generalize zero-shot
to new environments and even embodiments [48, 49]. With
DROID, we take a step towards enabling similar generalization
for robotic manipulation policies. Finally, there are some works
that leverage cheap, off-the-shelf tools, such as reacher-grabber
tools, for data collection, equipping robots with the same tools
to allow for zero-shot transfer to the robot [47, 53, 63]. While
this simplifies the data collection process, it limits the data
to wrist camera viewpoints and may suffer from morphology
differences when transferring from human-arm-collected data
to robot arm execution. Additionally, DROID has larger scene
and task diversity than prior tool-based collection datasets [47].
c) Scalable robot policy learning: Learning robot policies
from increasingly large and diverse datasets has been the
focus of numerous efforts over the last few years. Initially,
these efforts focused in large part on learning from scripted or
autonomously collected data [8, 12, 20, 26, 32, 40]. The success
of transformer models [58] in natural language processing
and computer vision motivated a number of recent works
that collected large-scale demonstration datasets and trained
transformer-based policies on them [2, 16, 25, 38, 39, 42, 49,
51, 65, 67]. Additionally, recent works suggest that diffusion
denoising models [22] are a powerful parametrization for multi-
modal action output distributions that combine expressivity
with scalability [7, 16, 21, 38, 54]. Our focus with DROID
is on introducing a new dataset, not a new policy learning
algorithm. As such, we build on existing state-of-the-art
2Fang et al. [14] report 110k trajectories for RH20T, but count each camera
stream separately – here we report the number of unique multi-view trajectories,
to compare fairly to all other datasets.
diffusion policies [7] for all of our policy learning experiments.
III. DROID DATA COLLECTION SETUP
In this work, we introduce DROID (Distributed Robot
Interaction Dataset), an open-source robot manipulation dataset
that provides for very high diversity and variability of scenes,
tasks, and objects (see Table I). Diverse and high-quality data is
a key ingredient for training generalizable policies, and DROID
is designed to deliver both quantity and quality: it contains
76k robot demonstration trajectories, spanning 86 tasks and
564 scenes. It was collected over the course of 12 months in
a large, cross-institutional effort with 18 robots and 50 data
collectors across 13 institutions. All data is collected on a
shared, open-source robot platform.
We are releasing all resources to enable researchers to build
upon DROID at https://droid-dataset.github.io. This includes
the full dataset under CC-BY 4.0 license, an interactive
dataset visualizer, code for training generalizable policies on
DROID, pre-trained policy checkpoints, and a detailed guide
for reproducing our robot hardware setup and control stack.
In this section, we introduce our hardware setup and the data
collection protocol.
A. DROID Robot Platform
A crucial component of building the DROID dataset was
distributed data collection at 13 institutions around the world:
it is what enabled us to collect manipulation data across a large
diversity of scenes and tasks. A key challenge in this distributed
setup is robot hardware: how can we ensure consistent and
reproducible robot control across so many setups, locations
and time zones? To streamline the distributed data collection
process we designed the DROID robot platform (see Fig. 2), a
hardware platform for data collection that is shared between all
institutions, allowing us to quickly set up new data collection
units and roll out updates across the whole data collection fleet.
It is designed to support easy transportation between scenes
and quick adjustment to new scenes and tasks.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Adjustable Zed 2 
Stereo Cameras
Robotiq 2F-85  
Gripper
Zed Mini Wrist  
Stereo Camera
Control Laptop
Oculus Quest 2 
Headset for Teleop
Franka Panda 
7DoF Robot Arm
Portable 
Standing Desk
Fig. 2: The DROID robot platform. We use the same hardware
setup across all 13 institutions to streamline data collection while
maximizing portability and flexibility. The setup consists of a Franka
Panda 7DoF robot arm, two adjustable Zed 2 stereo cameras, a wrist-
mounted Zed Mini stereo camera, and an Oculus Quest 2 headset with
controllers for teleoperation. Everything is mounted on a portable,
height-adjustable desk for quick scene changes.
We chose the Franka Emika Panda 7 DoF robot arm as the
base of our setup since it is widely adopted in the robot research
community, reliable, relatively affordable and was available
at most participating institutions. The robot arm is equipped
with a Robotiq 2F-85 gripper and is mounted on a height-
adjustable standing desk with wheels so it can easily move
between scenes and buildings. We record image observations
with three synchronized stereo camera streams: two exterior
Zed 2 cameras, table-mounted on adjustable tripods to quickly
adapt to a new scene layout, and a wrist-mounted Zed-Mini
camera. We use the Polymetis controller [33] and record actions
both in robot joint space and in end-effector space at a control
frequency of 15Hz. The setup is completed with the Franka
robot control box, a NUC that hosts the Polymetis server and
an Alienware laptop that runs our data collection GUI (see
Section III-B). Everything is powered with a single power
cable to further simplify changes in location.
For teleoperation, we use the controllers of a Meta Quest
2 headset to control the pose of the arm in 6D space as well
as the gripper in continuous space. Over the course of this
project we have replicated this setup 18 times across various
locations in North America, Asia, and Europe. We provide a
thoroughly tested guide to replicate the hardware and software
of our setup. We found that the setup is well-suited for data
collection and policy learning across a wide range of scenes
and tasks.
B. Data Collection Protocol
Our dataset is collected by 50 data collectors across various
research institutions. A shared data collection protocol helps
streamline data collection, particularly for inexperienced data
collectors. When designing the collection protocol for DROID,
we focused on the following objectives: (1) preventing common
data collection mistakes like “camera cannot see robot” or
“teleoperator in camera view”, (2) encouraging collection of
diverse data, (3) allowing data collectors to creatively choose
scenes and tasks.
Every data collection session starts with moving the robot to
a new scene. Data collectors were encouraged to choose scenes
that include multiple interesting tasks, numerous interaction
objects, and a healthy amount of clutter (see example scenes in
Fig. 12). After setting up the robot in the new scene, the data
collector chooses views for the 3rd person cameras that can
capture a wide range of interesting behaviors in the scene. Then
they perform extrinsic camera calibration using a checkerboard
and the OpenCV calibration algorithm. Next, the data collector
will enter all potential tasks for the current scene into a data
collection GUI on the laptop attached to the robot, either by
selecting from a list of task options or by typing in free-from
task instructions (see Fig. 11 for screenshots of the GUI).
During data collection the GUI will prompt the data collector
with a randomly sampled task from this list for each new
episode. This way we ensure that there is high coverage of
diverse tasks and collection is not biased to easier tasks or closer
objects. Additionally, the GUI periodically prompts the data
collector to perform randomly sampled “scene augmentations”
like nudges to the mobile base, moving and re-calibrating the
3rd person cameras, changing the room lighting, and adding
or removing items within the scene. For each trajectory, we
record the output of all RGB cameras, relevant low level state
information from the robot, equivalent robot control commands
from various popular action spaces, a data collector ID, and
the metadata entered in the GUI (see Section B for a detailed
list of all features we record). The data collector also marks
whether the collected sequence was a success, which we log
as part of the metadata. DROID consists of 76k successful
episodes; roughly 16k trajectories in our data collection were
labeled as “not successful”, which we include in our dataset
release but do not count towards the size of DROID. A data
collector will typically collect up to 100 trajectories or about
20 minutes of interaction data per scene before moving on to
a new scene.
During post-processing, we label each episode with natural
language commands using crowdsourcing via the tasq.ai data
labeling platform. We provide up to three independently labeled
instructions per episode from different crowd workers to ensure
diversity of annotations.
Since the initial extrinsic calibration parameters, provided
through conventional calibration detailed above, may not always
be accurate due to factors such as checkerboard misalignment,
inconsistent lighting, or errors inherent to the OpenCV calibra-
tion method, we address these inaccuracies in Section G. We
discuss in detail the automatic post-hoc calibration process and
provide three comprehensive sets of camera calibration matrices
for the DROID dataset, each accompanied by respective
quality assessment metrics. These include camera-to-base
calibrations for around 36k unique scenes with one camera
calibrated relative to the base, camera-to-camera calibrations

===== PAGE 5 =====
Bridge V2
RH20T
RT-1
Stationary
Containers
Textile
Furniture
Utensils
Appliances
Clothes
Hardware
Toys
Accessories
Sports
Kitchen Tools
Personal Care
Food
Fig. 3: Distribution of verbs and objects in DROID. Top: Distribution of verbs after de-duplication with GPT-4. DROID has a long tail of
diverse tasks that span a wide range of behaviors. We also visualize the verb distributions for existing large manipulation datasets and find
that only Bridge V2 [59] has a comparable long tail of skills (for a detailed view of verb distributions for all datasets, see Appendix, Fig. 18).
Bottom: Distribution of objects the robot interacts with in DROID, sorted by category (best viewed zoomed in; for a detailed view, see
Fig. 19).
for all scenes, and a curated superset of 24k scenes covering
all three calibration methods with both cameras calibrated
relative to the base. These refined calibrations enhance the
dataset’s suitability for robust geometric understanding in
robotics and 3D perception tasks. For more details, please
see Sec. Section G.
IV. DROID DATASET ANALYSIS
While we have so far referred to DROID and other large-
scale robot manipulation datasets as “diverse,” there is nuance
in what constitutes a diverse robot dataset. Different axes of
data diversity will affect the generalization abilities of models
trained on the data differently: scene diversity may facilitate
generalization to new scenes, while task or camera viewpoint
diversity allows for greater generalization to new instructions
and camera angles. We will analyze DROID along multiple
important axes of diversity and compare it to existing large
robot manipulation datasets.
When deciding which axes of generalization to inspect
for robot manipulation datasets, it is important to consider
which aspects of the problem may change between the training
and downstream usage scenarios, i.e., which axes we want
manipulation policies to generalize over. This may involve
aspects of the scene, task, and robot setup. We identify the
following important axes of diversity for closer analysis: task
diversity, object diversity, scene diversity, viewpoint diversity,
and interaction location diversity. The latter refers to the
diversity of 3D locations relative to the robot’s base at which
interactions with objects occur, an important factor when
generalizing to new scene layouts where interactions often
need to generalize to new table heights or new parts of the
robot’s workspace.
We analyze DROID along these axes and compare it to
existing large-scale robot manipulation datasets [2, 14, 59]. For
each dataset, we run our analysis using one randomly sampled
third-person camera frame per episode and the provided
language instruction annotations. We find that results are
consistent across randomly sampled frames.
We visualize the results of our analysis in Figs. 3 to 6.
Overall, we find that DROID significantly increases diversity
in tasks, objects, scenes, viewpoints and interaction locations
over existing large scale robot manipulation datasets. A key
reason is DROID’s data collection protocol (see Section III-B):
by collecting data with 50 data collectors in 52 buildings
across three continents, switching scenes approximately every
20 minutes during collection and giving collectors the freedom
to freely choose scene-appropriate tasks, we can substantially
increase the diversity of scenes, tasks, and objects featured
in the dataset. Next, we will describe our analysis for each
category in more detail.
a) Task diversity: As explained in Section II, we use the
distribution of de-duplicated verbs in a dataset’s instructions

===== PAGE 6 =====
DROID
Bridge V2
RT-1
RH20T
Fig. 4: Number of scenes per scene type. DROID has an order of
magnitude more scenes than other large robot manipulation datasets,
spanning a much wider range of scene types. We manually verified
or confirmed with the authors that scene count and type for prior
datasets is accurately reported.
as a scalable indicator for behavioral diversity. We use a
semantic parsing algorithm [23] to extract verbs and referenced
objects from the language instructions. We then use GPT4
to de-duplicate the verbs, i.e., remove synonyms and typos.
We plot the distribution of verbs for DROID in Fig. 3, top.
DROID features a wide variety of verbs with a long-tailed
distribution. We use a logarithmic scale for these visualizations,
since diversity is about covering a wide range of tasks, rather
than having a high concentration of many episodes on only
a handful of tasks – that is, it is less important if a task has
1000 vs. 2000 trajectories than whether it has 0 vs. 10. We
also visualize the corresponding verb distributions for existing
large manipulation datasets [2, 14, 59], and find that only
Bridge V2 [59] has a comparable long tail of verb classes,
although in a more restricted set of scenes (see scene diversity
analysis below). Fig. 18 shows a detailed view of the verb
distributions for all datasets.
b) Object diversity: A dataset that includes manipulations
for a large variety of objects facilitates generalization to
new objects downstream. We analyze the objects the robot
manipulates for each episode in DROID from the language
instruction labels using the same semantic parsing pipeline [23]
and show the distribution in Fig. 3, bottom (best viewed zoomed
in, or see Fig. 19 for an enlarged version). DROID contains
interactions with a wide range of everyday objects, spanning a
diverse set of categories. We also plot the joint distribution of
the most common verbs and interacted objects in Fig. 20. It
shows that DROID not only contains diverse objects, but also
a diverse range of interactions with most objects.
c) Scene diversity: We define 10 scene types (see Fig. 4)
and use GPT-4V to determine the scene type for a given
episode in DROID (see Appendix C for the used prompt).
We find that this leads to high-quality scene type annotations
(see Fig. 12 for example scenes and their categorization). For
existing robot datasets we manually determine the scene types
Side view:
Fig. 5: Third-person camera viewpoints in DROID (subsampled).
DROID episodes cover a total of 1417 camera viewpoints along
with intrinsic and extrinsic stereo camera calibration. Brighter colors
indicate regions of higher viewpoint density.
for each scene due to the small number of total scenes. DROID
contains 564 unique scenes, an order of magnitude more than
existing large robot manipulation datasets. The scenes cover
a wide spectrum of scene types, from office environments
to households. Qualitatively, the scenes in DROID reflect
realistic real world scenarios with naturally occuring objects
and backgrounds. We highly encourage the reader to inspect
qualitative examples of scenes in Fig. 12 and the supplementary
videos.
d) Viewpoint diversity: Existing large-scale robot learning
datasets often only contain a limited set of camera viewpoints
because the cameras are mounted in a fixed location relative
to the scene or robot. In contrast, DROID varies camera
viewpoints significantly during data collection and thus has a
broad coverage of viewpoints (see Fig. 5) with 1417 unique
view points in the dataset.
e) Interaction location diversity: Another subtle yet
important aspect of robot datasets is the diversity of interaction
locations: are tasks always executed in the same narrow slice of
the workspace, e.g., at the same table height, or does the data
cover interactions across a large fraction of the work space?
We use the point of first gripper closing in every episode
as a proxy for interactions in the dataset and visualize the
3D location of these interaction points for different datasets
in Fig. 6. DROID features interactions in a wider range of
the workspace than existing robot manipulation datasets that
typically focus interactions on a table surface in front of the
robot.
V. EXPERIMENTS
The analysis in the previous section highlighted the diversity
of tasks, objects, scenes, and viewpoints in the DROID dataset.
In this section, we investigate whether this diverse data resource
can be used to boost policy performance and robustness across

===== PAGE 7 =====
DROID
RT-1
Bridge V2
RH20T
Fig. 6: Visualization of 3D interaction points relative to the robot
base. We visualize the 3D location at which the gripper first closes in
each trajectory, since closing the gripper often indicates meaningful
object interactions. DROID’s interactions cover a larger part of the
robot’s workspace, since the robot is moved freely between collection
sessions instead of being placed in front of repetitive tabletop scenes.
a wide spectrum of robot manipulation tasks and environments.
To this end, we train policies across 6 tasks in 4 different
locations including lab, office, and household settings, to reflect
the diversity of real world robotic research use cases (see Fig. 7).
All experiments use representative, state of the art robot policy
learning approaches [7]. Across the board, we find that DROID
improves policy success rate while increasing robustness to
scene changes like distractors or novel object instances.
A. Experimental Setup
a) Tasks: As illustrated in Fig. 7, we choose 6 tasks
in 4 locations that span a representative range of real robot
learning use cases: from simple pick-place tasks to multi-
stage cooking tasks; from clean lab settings to real households.
All experiments use the DROID hardware stack for policy
evaluations. Concretely, we evaluate on the following 6 tasks,
each with their own out-of-distribution variants:
Closing Waffle Maker: A short horizon task in a lab setting
(70 demonstrations), where the task is to close a waffle maker.
The waffle maker position is randomized between episodes. The
out of distribution variant consists of adding several distractor
objects on the table.
Place Chips on Plate: A short horizon task in a lab setting
(50 demonstrations), where the task is to pick and place a bag
of Doritos chips onto a plate, with two distractor objects on
the table. All objects and the plate position are randomized
between episodes on the table. The out of distribution variant
consists of (a) changing the type of chips or (b) adding more
distractor objects to the table.
Put Apple in Pot: A medium horizon task in a lab setting (60
demonstrations), where the task is to pick and place an apple
into a pot and then put a lid on the pot. The apple, pot, and lid
position are randomized between episodes on the table. The
out of distribution variant involves placing a distractor plate
on the table.
Toasting: A medium horizon task in a lab setting (150
demonstrations), where the task is to put an object on a toaster
oven tray, then close the toaster oven. The object and toaster
position are randomized between episodes on the table. The
out of distribution variant consists of toasting novel objects.
Clean up Desk: A long horizon task in an office setting (50
demonstrations), where the task is to open a drawer, pick and
place an eraser into the drawer, and then close the drawer. The
eraser position is fixed. The out of distribution variant consists
of adding distractor objects on the desk and in the drawer.
Cook Lentils: A long horizon task in a kitchen setting (50
demonstrations), where the task is to remove the lid off a pan,
pour lentils into the pan, and turn on the stove. The object
positions are fixed. The out of distribution variant consists of
adding several distractor objects and a camera shift.
Additional details about each evaluation task can be found
in Appendix E. All data is collected using the DROID
teleoperation setup and training uses the same standardized
policy learning backbone.
b) Policy training: The goal of this work is to intro-
duce a new robot manipulation dataset, not to introduce
a new policy learning method. Thus, during experimental
evaluations we aim to leverage a well-adopted, state-of-the-
art policy learning pipeline. To this end, we use diffusion
policies [7, 16, 21, 38, 54], which leverage denoising diffusion
models for action prediction and have recently demonstrated
strong performance across a range of applications. We build on
the implementation of diffusion policies in Robomimic [37],
which provides high quality open-source implementations
of a number of different imitation learning and offline RL
algorithms. Concretely, all of our policies are conditioned on
a language instruction, use the RGB camera streams from the
two external cameras and the robot proprioception as input, and
produce absolute robot end-effector translation, rotation, and
gripper actions. We first downsample the camera observations
to a resolution of 128 × 128 and use a ResNet-50 visual
encoder pre-trained on ImageNet [11] to encode both visual
inputs. We then concatenate these visual embeddings with a
frozen DistilBERT [45] language embedding and the robots
proprioceptive state. These concatenated features are then fed
through an MLP and passed to a U-Net diffusion head which
generates action trajectories. In line with prior work [7], we
train the diffusion policy to generate 16-step action sequences,
and during rollouts, step 8 actions open loop before re-running
policy inference. For leveraging DROID during policy training,
we simply mix training batches at a 50/50 ratio between the
small in-domain dataset and the complete DROID dataset but
excluding trajectories marked as “not successful”, which we
find to work well in practice. Additional details about the
policy training can be found in Appendix F.

===== PAGE 8 =====
Place Chips on Plate
Put Apple in Pot
Toasting
Clean up Desk
Cook Lentils
Lab Evaluation
Household Evaluation
Office Evaluation
Close Waffle Maker
Fig. 7: Robot setups for policy evaluation. We cover a wide range of tasks and scenes, from lab evaluations to offices and real households, to
reflect the diversity of use cases in real robot research. Depending on the task we collect between 50 and 150 demonstrations. We describe
each task with out-of-distribution evaluation modifications in parenthesis, left to right: Close Waffle Maker: The robot needs to close a
waffle maker (distractor objects). Place Chips on Plate: The robot needs to pick up the chips bag and place it on the provided plate (unseen
chips bag and distractor objects). Put Apple in Pot: The robot needs to pick up the apple, place it in the pot, and close the lid (unseen
distractor object). Toasting: The robot needs to pick up the object, place it in the toaster oven, and close the oven (toast a novel object).
Clean up Desk: The robot needs to open the drawer, place the eraser that is on top of the desk inside the drawer, and close it (distractor
objects on desk and in drawer). Cook Lentils: The robot needs to remove the pan lid, pick up and pour lentils into the pan, and turn on the
stove(add distractor objects).
B. Does DROID Improve Policy Performance and Robustness?
To study if co-training with DROID can enable improved
policy learning, we train separate policies for each evaluation
task and compare all policies head-to-head in A/B evaluations
using 10 rollouts for each task setting and method. To test
how DROID and existing datasets affect policy robustness, we
evaluate each task and method in two settings: “in-distribution,”
which reflects the distribution of tasks in the in-domain
demonstrations with noise added to the initial robot and object
positions, and “out-of-distribution” (OOD), which tests policy
robustness e.g., by introducing distractor objects or switching
the manipulated object. We evaluate the following approaches:
• No Co-training: Trains a diffusion policy [7] using the
in-domain demonstrations only
• DROID (Ours): Trains a diffusion policy, but mixes
batches 50/50 between in-domain demonstrations and
DROID demonstrations
• OXE [39]: Trains a diffusion policy, but mixes batches
50/50 between in-domain demonstrations and trajectories
from the Open X-Embodiment dataset [39] (OXE). OXE
contains most of the existing large robot manipulation
datasets we compared DROID to in Section IV, as well as
a large number of other robot datasets, spanning 22 robot
embodiments and approximately 300 scenes total.3
We present the results of our policy evaluations in Fig. 8.
Across all tasks, we find that DROID substantially improves
policy performance compared to the diffusion policy trained
on in-domain data only. Policies co-trained with DROID also
perform better than policies that leverage diverse, existing
robot datasets in Open X-Embodiment (OXE). Notably, when
testing out of distribution performance, the No Co-training
baseline performs quite poorly while the co-trained policies
are much more effective. This difference is especially notable
3We use a curated split of OXE based on Octo Model Team et al. [38],
which has been shown to work well for policy learning in prior work [38].
We remove the Language Table dataset [35], equivalent to 5% of the Octo
training mix, due to its repetitive scene layouts and tasks, and its raw size,
which proved challenging to handle for our training infrastructure.
when co-training with DROID, which has the strongest overall
performance.
Qualitatively, we find that policies that leverage DROID
during training are notably smoother and precise than other
comparisons, particularly in the more challenging out-of-
distribution evaluations. For instance, in the OOD setting of the
Waffle Closing task, DROID is the only method that consistently
reaches for the waffle maker, while the other methods get
confused about the task. Similarly, in the multi-step Cook
Lentils task, baselines tend to fail after two or sometimes just
one step, while co-training with DROID is the only method able
to consistently finish all three steps See Fig. 9 for examples
of qualitative task rollouts.
C. How important is the scene diversity in DROID?
One of the unique benefits of DROID compared to existing
robot datasets is its amount of scene diversity. Indeed we see
in Figure 4 that DROID contains far more scene diversity than
the next most diverse robot manipulation dataset. While we’ve
seen the benefits of co-training with DROID, can we quantify
how much of a role scene diversity plays in improved policy
robustness?
To test this, we design an experiment that uses the challeng-
ing OOD versions of the evaluation tasks from Section V-A,
but compares:
• DROID (7k, 20 Scenes): Selects for the 20 scenes from
DROID with the most demonstrations each, resulting in
7362 trajectories with comparatively little scene diversity.
• DROID (7k, Diverse Scenes): Uniform random sample of
7362 successful demonstrations from the DROID dataset,
which matches dataset size to the previous method while
retaining high scene diversity.
These comparisons use the same 50/50 co-training paradigm
with individual task data used in the previous experiment.
Hence, this helps establish whether the scene diversity of
DROID results in better policy performance than just using 20
scenes while controlling for dataset size.

===== PAGE 9 =====
Fig. 8: Does DROID Improve Policy Performance and Robustness? We find that across all our evaluation tasks, co-training with DROID
significantly improves both in distribution and OOD performance over both no co-training and co-training with the Open-X dataset. We
compare success rate averaged across all tasks with standard error, and find DROID outperforms the next best method by 22% absolute
success rate in-distribution and by 17% out of distribution.
In Figure 10 we observe that using the split of the dataset
with more diverse scenes yields better performance in the
OOD evaluation setting. By comparing Figure 10’s individual
task performances with the corresponding tasks in Figure 8,
we also see that the performance of co-training with the full
DROID dataset matches or outperforms the performance with
the subsampled dataset on all three tasks. These results suggest
that the strength of DROID lies in its size and especially in
its diversity.
VI. DISCUSSION
In this work, we introduced DROID (Distributed Robot
Interaction Dataset), a new robot manipulation dataset with a
large diversity of scenes, tasks, objects and viewpoints. Our
dataset analysis in Section IV showed that DROID has an order
of magnitude larger scene diversity than existing large robot
manipulation datasets, a wide range of tasks, many interaction
objects, and diverse viewpoints. Our policy learning evaluations
show that DROID is a valuable data resource for improving
policy performance and robustness, even in comparison to
existing large robot data sources like the Open X-Embodiment
dataset [39].
We hope that DROID can be a catalyst for research on
general-purpose robot manipulation policies that are able to
generalize to a broad range of tasks and scenes. In this work,
we showed one example for leveraging DROID to boost policy
performance, but there are many open questions about how to
best make use of such diverse data: how should we combine
DROID with existing large-scale robot datasets and how can
we train policies that perform tasks in new scenes without any
in-domain data? Can the diverse interaction data in DROID be
used to learn better visual representations for robotic control?
And in what situations is it helpful to train on the full dataset vs.
slices of the data? We hope that DROID can accelerate research
on these questions and are excited for how the community
will leverage the dataset! We also hope that our open-sourced
hardware platform, which already exists in 18 labs around the
globe and is easy to reproduce, can improve reproducibility of
robot learning research and facilitate future additions to the
DROID dataset.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank the Toyota Research Institute (TRI) for their
support in various aspects of this project, from data collection

===== PAGE 10 =====
DROID 
(ours)
Remove Lid
Pick up Lentils
Pour Lentils
Turn on Stove
OXE 
No  
Co-Train
Fig. 9: Representative policy rollout examples on the most challenging “Cook Lentils” task in the kitchen of one of the authors. Qualitatively,
we find that policies co-trained with DROID perform smoother, more precise motions, allowing them to solve long-horizon tasks like lentil
cooking even in the presence of unseen distractor objects. In contrast, policies trained only with in-domain demonstrations or co-trained with
Open-X data [39] struggle with long-horizon tasks and out-of-distribution evaluation settings. See https://droid-dataset.github.io for rollout
videos.
Fig. 10: How important is the scene diversity in DROID? We find
that co-training on a subset of DROID with diverse scenes has higher
OOD performance than co-training on a subset of DROID with only
20 scenes, suggesting the scene diversity of DROID is one of the
driving factors behind strong policy performance when co-training.
to compute for policy training. This work was supported by
the Google TPU Research Cloud. We further acknowledge
the following funding sources: Chelsea Finn’s group was
supported by TRI and ONR grants N00014-20-1-2675 and
N00014-22-1-2621; Sergey Levine’s group was supported by
TRI, NSF FRR IIS-2150826, and ONR N00014-20-1-2383;
Ram Ramamoorthy’s group was supported by the United
Kingdom Research and Innovation through grant EP/S023208/1
to the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Robotics
and Autonomous Systems (RAS) and grant EP/V026607/1
to the UKRI Research Node on Trustworthy Autonomous
Systems Governance and Regulation; Dorsa Sadigh’s group
was supported by TRI and ONR grant N00014-22-1-2293;
Glen Berseth’s group acknowledges funding support from
NSERC and CIFAR and compute support from Digital Research
Alliance of Canada, Mila IDT and NVidia; Jeannette Bohg’s
group was supported by TRI, Intrinsic, Toshiba and the National
Science Foundation under Grant 2327974; Joseph Lim’s group
was supported by Institute of Information & Communications
Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grants (No.2019-
0-00075, Artificial Intelligence Graduate School Program,
KAIST; No.2022-0-00077, AI Technology Development for
Commonsense Extraction, Reasoning, and Inference from
Heterogeneous Data), and a National Research Foundation
of Korea (NRF) grant (NRF-2021H1D3A2A03103683) funded
by the Korean government (MSIT).
REFERENCES
[1] Homanga Bharadhwaj, Jay Vakil, Mohit Sharma, Abhinav
Gupta, Shubham Tulsiani, and Vikash Kumar. Roboagent:
Generalization and efficiency in robot manipulation via
semantic augmentations and action chunking.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.01918, 2023.
[2] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yev-
gen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana
Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine
Hsu, et al. Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world
control at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[3] Serkan Cabi, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Alexander
Novikov, Ksenia Konyushkova, Scott Reed, Rae Jeong,
Konrad Zolna, Yusuf Aytar, David Budden, Mel Vecerik,

===== PAGE 11 =====
Oleg Sushkov, David Barker, Jonathan Scholz, Misha
Denil, Nando de Freitas, and Ziyu Wang.
Scaling
data-driven robotics with reward sketching and batch
reinforcement learning. RSS, 2019.
[4] Holger Caesar, Varun Bankiti, Alex H. Lang, Sourabh
Vora, Venice Erin Liong, Qiang Xu, Anush Krishnan,
Yu Pan, Giancarlo Baldan, and Oscar Beijbom. nuscenes:
A multimodal dataset for autonomous driving. preprint
arXiv:1903.11027, 2019.
[5] Angel X Chang, Thomas Funkhouser, Leonidas Guibas,
Pat Hanrahan, Qixing Huang, Zimo Li, Silvio Savarese,
Manolis Savva, Shuran Song, Hao Su, et al. Shapenet:
An information-rich 3d model repository. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1512.03012, 2015.
[6] Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Chenfeng Xu, Karthik Dhar-
marajan, Muhammad Zubair Irshad, Richard Cheng, Kurt
Keutzer, Masayoshi Tomizuka, Quan Vuong, and Ken
Goldberg. Rovi-aug: Robot and viewpoint augmentation
for cross-embodiment robot learning. In Conference on
Robot Learning (CoRL), Munich, Germany, 2024.
[7] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric
Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, and Shuran Song. Dif-
fusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion.
In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and
Systems (RSS), 2023.
[8] Sudeep Dasari, Frederik Ebert, Stephen Tian, Suraj Nair,
Bernadette Bucher, Karl Schmeckpeper, Siddharth Singh,
Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Robonet: Large-scale
multi-robot learning. CoRL, 2019.
[9] Matt Deitke, Ruoshi Liu, Matthew Wallingford, Huong
Ngo, Oscar Michel, Aditya Kusupati, Alan Fan, Christian
Laforte, Vikram Voleti, Samir Yitzhak Gadre, et al.
Objaverse-xl: A universe of 10m+ 3d objects.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.05663, 2023.
[10] Matt Deitke, Dustin Schwenk, Jordi Salvador, Luca Weihs,
Oscar Michel, Eli VanderBilt, Ludwig Schmidt, Kiana
Ehsani, Aniruddha Kembhavi, and Ali Farhadi. Objaverse:
A universe of annotated 3d objects. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 13142–13153, 2023.
[11] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li,
and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image
database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 248–255. Ieee, 2009.
[12] Frederik Ebert, Chelsea Finn, Sudeep Dasari, Annie
Xie, Alex Lee, and Sergey Levine.
Visual foresight:
Model-based deep reinforcement learning for vision-based
robotic control. arXiv:1812.00568, 2018.
[13] Frederik
Ebert,
Yanlai
Yang,
Karl
Schmeckpeper,
Bernadette Bucher, Georgios Georgakis, Kostas Daniilidis,
Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridge data: Boosting
generalization of robotic skills with cross-domain datasets.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.13396, 2021.
[14] Hao-Shu Fang, Hongjie Fang, Zhenyu Tang, Jirong Liu,
Chenxi Wang, Junbo Wang, Haoyi Zhu, and Cewu Lu.
Rh20t: A comprehensive robotic dataset for learning
diverse skills in one-shot. Towards Generalist Robots:
Learning Paradigms for Scalable Skill Acquisition@
CoRL2023, 3:5, 2023.
[15] Martin A Fischler and Robert C Bolles.
Random
sample consensus: a paradigm for model fitting with
applications to image analysis and automated cartography.
Communications of the ACM, 24(6):381–395, 1981.
[16] Zipeng Fu, Tony Z Zhao, and Chelsea Finn. Mobile
aloha: Learning bimanual mobile manipulation with
low-cost whole-body teleoperation.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.02117, 2024.
[17] Leo Gao, Stella Biderman, Sid Black, Laurence Golding,
Travis Hoppe, Charles Foster, Jason Phang, Horace He,
Anish Thite, Noa Nabeshima, et al. The pile: An 800gb
dataset of diverse text for language modeling.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2101.00027, 2020.
[18] Andreas Geiger, Philip Lenz, and Raquel Urtasun. Are we
ready for autonomous driving? the kitti vision benchmark
suite. In 2012 IEEE conference on computer vision and
pattern recognition, pages 3354–3361. IEEE, 2012.
[19] Kristen Grauman, Andrew Westbury, Eugene Byrne,
Zachary Chavis, Antonino Furnari, Rohit Girdhar, Jackson
Hamburger, Hao Jiang, Miao Liu, Xingyu Liu, et al.
Ego4d: Around the world in 3,000 hours of egocentric
video. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 18995–
19012, 2022.
[20] Abhinav Gupta, Adithyavairavan Murali, Dhiraj Prakashc-
hand Gandhi, and Lerrel Pinto.
Robot learning in
homes: Improving generalization and reducing dataset
bias. Advances in neural information processing systems,
31, 2018.
[21] Huy Ha, Pete Florence, and Shuran Song. Scaling up and
distilling down: Language-guided robot skill acquisition.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 3766–3777.
PMLR, 2023.
[22] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising
diffusion probabilistic models.
Advances in neural
information processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
[23] Matthew Honnibal and Ines Montani. spaCy 2: Natural
language understanding with Bloom embeddings, con-
volutional neural networks and incremental parsing. To
appear, 2017.
[24] Eric Jang, Alex Irpan, Mohi Khansari, Daniel Kappler,
Frederik Ebert, Corey Lynch, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Bc-z: Zero-shot task generalization with robotic
imitation learning. In Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 991–1002. PMLR, 2022.
[25] Yunfan Jiang, Agrim Gupta, Zichen Zhang, Guanzhi
Wang, Yongqiang Dou, Yanjun Chen, Li Fei-Fei, Anima
Anandkumar, Yuke Zhu, and Linxi Fan. VIMA: Robot ma-
nipulation with multimodal prompts. In Andreas Krause,
Emma Brunskill, Kyunghyun Cho, Barbara Engelhardt,
Sivan Sabato, and Jonathan Scarlett, editors, Proceedings
of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learn-
ing, volume 202 of Proceedings of Machine Learning

===== PAGE 12 =====
Research, pages 14975–15022. PMLR, 23–29 Jul 2023.
URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/jiang23b.html.
[26] Dmitry Kalashnikov, Alex Irpan, Peter Pastor, Julian
Ibarz, Alexander Herzog, Eric Jang, Deirdre Quillen,
Ethan Holly, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Vincent Vanhoucke,
et al.
QT-Opt: Scalable deep reinforcement learning
for vision-based robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.10293, 2018.
[27] Dmitry Kalashnkov, Jake Varley, Yevgen Chebotar, Ben
Swanson, Rico Jonschkowski, Chelsea Finn, Sergey
Levine, and Karol Hausman. Mt-opt: Continuous multi-
task robotic reinforcement learning at scale. arXiv, 2021.
[28] Haresh Karnan, Anirudh Nair, Xuesu Xiao, Garrett War-
nell, Sören Pirk, Alexander Toshev, Justin Hart, Joydeep
Biswas, and Peter Stone. Socially compliant navigation
dataset (scand): A large-scale dataset of demonstrations
for social navigation. IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 7(4):11807–11814, 2022.
[29] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi
Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer
Whitehead, Alexander C. Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, Piotr Dollár,
and Ross Girshick. Segment anything, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2304.02643.
[30] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi
Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer
Whitehead, Alexander C. Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al.
Segment Anything, April 2023.
[31] Vincent Lepetit, Francesc Moreno-Noguer, and Pascal
Fua. Ep n p: An accurate o (n) solution to the p n p
problem. International journal of computer vision, 81:
155–166, 2009.
[32] Sergey Levine, Peter Pastor, Alex Krizhevsky, and Deirdre
Quillen.
Learning hand-eye coordination for robotic
grasping with large-scale data collection. In International
Symposium on Experimental Robotics. Springer, 2016.
[33] Yixin Lin, Austin S. Wang, Giovanni Sutanto, Ak-
shara Rai, and Franziska Meier.
Polymetis.
https:
//facebookresearch.github.io/fairo/polymetis/, 2021.
[34] Jingpei Lu, Zekai Liang, Tristin Xie, Florian Ritcher,
Shan Lin, Sainan Liu, and Michael C Yip.
Ctrnet-x:
Camera-to-robot pose estimation in real-world conditions
using a single camera. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.10441,
2024.
[35] Corey Lynch, Ayzaan Wahid, Jonathan Tompson, Tianli
Ding, James Betker, Robert Baruch, Travis Armstrong,
and Pete Florence. Interactive language: Talking to robots
in real time.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
2023.
[36] Ajay Mandlekar, Yuke Zhu, Animesh Garg, Jonathan
Booher, Max Spero, Albert Tung, Julian Gao, John
Emmons, Anchit Gupta, Emre Orbay, et al. Roboturk: A
crowdsourcing platform for robotic skill learning through
imitation. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 879–
893. PMLR, 2018.
[37] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei, Silvio
Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Martín-Martín. What
matters in learning from offline human demonstrations for
robot manipulation. In arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.03298,
2021.
[38] Octo Model Team, Dibya Ghosh, Homer Walke, Karl
Pertsch, Kevin Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey
Hejna, Charles Xu, Jianlan Luo, Tobias Kreiman, You
Liang Tan, Dorsa Sadigh, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey
Levine. Octo: An open-source generalist robot policy.
https://octo-models.github.io, 2023.
[39] Open X-Embodiment Collaboration, Abhishek Padalkar,
Acorn Pooley, Ajinkya Jain, Alex Bewley, Alex Her-
zog, Alex Irpan, Alexander Khazatsky, Anant Rai,
Anikait Singh, Anthony Brohan, Antonin Raffin, Ayzaan
Wahid, Ben Burgess-Limerick, Beomjoon Kim, Bern-
hard Schölkopf, Brian Ichter, Cewu Lu, Charles Xu,
Chelsea Finn, Chenfeng Xu, Cheng Chi, Chenguang
Huang, Christine Chan, Chuer Pan, Chuyuan Fu, Coline
Devin, Danny Driess, Deepak Pathak, Dhruv Shah, Dieter
Büchler, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Dorsa Sadigh, Edward
Johns, Federico Ceola, Fei Xia, Freek Stulp, Gaoyue Zhou,
Gaurav S. Sukhatme, Gautam Salhotra, Ge Yan, Giulio
Schiavi, Hao Su, Hao-Shu Fang, Haochen Shi, Heni Ben
Amor, Henrik I Christensen, Hiroki Furuta, Homer Walke,
Hongjie Fang, Igor Mordatch, Ilija Radosavovic, Isabel
Leal, Jacky Liang, Jaehyung Kim, Jan Schneider, Jasmine
Hsu, Jeannette Bohg, Jeffrey Bingham, Jiajun Wu, Jialin
Wu, Jianlan Luo, Jiayuan Gu, Jie Tan, Jihoon Oh, Jitendra
Malik, Jonathan Tompson, Jonathan Yang, Joseph J. Lim,
João Silvério, Junhyek Han, Kanishka Rao, Karl Pertsch,
Karol Hausman, Keegan Go, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,
Ken Goldberg, Kendra Byrne, Kenneth Oslund, Kento
Kawaharazuka, Kevin Zhang, Keyvan Majd, Krishan
Rana, Krishnan Srinivasan, Lawrence Yunliang Chen,
Lerrel Pinto, Liam Tan, Lionel Ott, Lisa Lee, Masayoshi
Tomizuka, Maximilian Du, Michael Ahn, Mingtong
Zhang, Mingyu Ding, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Mohit
Sharma, Moo Jin Kim, Naoaki Kanazawa, Nicklas Hansen,
Nicolas Heess, Nikhil J Joshi, Niko Suenderhauf, Nor-
man Di Palo, Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah, Oier
Mees, Oliver Kroemer, Pannag R Sanketi, Paul Wohlhart,
Peng Xu, Pierre Sermanet, Priya Sundaresan, Quan Vuong,
Rafael Rafailov, Ran Tian, Ria Doshi, Roberto Martín-
Martín, Russell Mendonca, Rutav Shah, Ryan Hoque,
Ryan Julian, Samuel Bustamante, Sean Kirmani, Sergey
Levine, Sherry Moore, Shikhar Bahl, Shivin Dass, Shuran
Song, Sichun Xu, Siddhant Haldar, Simeon Adebola,
Simon Guist, Soroush Nasiriany, Stefan Schaal, Stefan
Welker, Stephen Tian, Sudeep Dasari, Suneel Belkhale,
Takayuki Osa, Tatsuya Harada, Tatsuya Matsushima, Ted
Xiao, Tianhe Yu, Tianli Ding, Todor Davchev, Tony Z.
Zhao, Travis Armstrong, Trevor Darrell, Vidhi Jain,
Vincent Vanhoucke, Wei Zhan, Wenxuan Zhou, Wolfram
Burgard, Xi Chen, Xiaolong Wang, Xinghao Zhu, Xuanlin
Li, Yao Lu, Yevgen Chebotar, Yifan Zhou, Yifeng Zhu,
Ying Xu, Yixuan Wang, Yonatan Bisk, Yoonyoung Cho,

===== PAGE 13 =====
Youngwoon Lee, Yuchen Cui, Yueh hua Wu, Yujin
Tang, Yuke Zhu, Yunzhu Li, Yusuke Iwasawa, Yutaka
Matsuo, Zhuo Xu, and Zichen Jeff Cui.
Open X-
Embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and RT-X models.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08864, 2023.
[40] Lerrel Pinto and Abhinav Gupta.
Supersizing self-
supervision: Learning to grasp from 50k tries and 700
robot hours. In 2016 IEEE international conference on
robotics and automation (ICRA), pages 3406–3413. IEEE,
2016.
[41] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen
Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision, 2021. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.00020.
[42] Ilija Radosavovic, Baifeng Shi, Letian Fu, Ken Goldberg,
Trevor Darrell, and Jitendra Malik.
Robot learning
with sensorimotor pre-training. In Conference on Robot
Learning, 2023.
[43] Ahad Rana. Common crawl – building an open web-scale
crawl using hadoop, 2010. URL https://www.slideshare.
net/hadoopusergroup/common-crawlpresentation.
[44] Nikhila Ravi, Jeremy Reizenstein, David Novotny, Taylor
Gordon, Wan-Yen Lo, Justin Johnson, and Georgia
Gkioxari. Accelerating 3d deep learning with pytorch3d.
arXiv:2007.08501, 2020.
[45] Victor Sanh, Lysandre Debut, Julien Chaumond, and
Thomas Wolf.
Distilbert, a distilled version of bert:
smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter. ArXiv, abs/1910.01108,
2019.
URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:
203626972.
[46] Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard Vencu,
Cade Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi Cherti, Theo
Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis, Mitchell Worts-
man, et al. Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset for
training next generation image-text models. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:25278–25294,
2022.
[47] Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah, Anant Rai, Haritheja
Etukuru, Yiqian Liu, Ishan Misra, Soumith Chintala, and
Lerrel Pinto. On bringing robots home, 2023.
[48] Dhruv Shah, Ajay Sridhar, Arjun Bhorkar, Noriaki Hirose,
and Sergey Levine. Gnm: A general navigation model to
drive any robot. In 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 7226–7233.
IEEE, 2023.
[49] Dhruv Shah, Ajay Sridhar, Nitish Dashora, Kyle Stachow-
icz, Kevin Black, Noriaki Hirose, and Sergey Levine.
ViNT: A foundation model for visual navigation.
In
7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.14846.
[50] Pratyusha Sharma, Lekha Mohan, Lerrel Pinto, and Abhi-
nav Gupta. Multiple interactions made easy (mime): Large
scale demonstrations data for imitation. In Conference
on robot learning, pages 906–915. PMLR, 2018.
[51] Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox.
Perceiver-actor: A multi-task transformer for robotic
manipulation. In Proceedings of the 6th Conference on
Robot Learning (CoRL), 2022.
[52] Mohit Shridhar, Lucas Manuelli, and Dieter Fox.
Perceiver-actor: A multi-task transformer for robotic
manipulation. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages
785–799. PMLR, 2023.
[53] Shuran Song, Andy Zeng, Johnny Lee, and Thomas
Funkhouser. Grasping in the wild: Learning 6dof closed-
loop grasping from low-cost demonstrations.
IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(3):4978–4985, 2020.
[54] Ajay Sridhar, Dhruv Shah, Catherine Glossop, and Sergey
Levine. Nomad: Goal masked diffusion policies for navi-
gation and exploration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.07896,
2023.
[55] Pei Sun, Henrik Kretzschmar, Xerxes Dotiwalla, Aurelien
Chouard, Vijaysai Patnaik, Paul Tsui, James Guo, Yin
Zhou, Yuning Chai, Benjamin Caine, Vijay Vasudevan,
Wei Han, Jiquan Ngiam, Hang Zhao, Aleksei Timofeev,
Scott Ettinger, Maxim Krivokon, Amy Gao, Aditya Joshi,
Yu Zhang, Jonathon Shlens, Zhifeng Chen, and Dragomir
Anguelov.
Scalability in perception for autonomous
driving: Waymo open dataset, 2019.
[56] Stephen Tian, Blake Wulfe, Kyle Sargent, Katherine
Liu, Sergey Zakharov, Vitor Guizilini, and Jiajun Wu.
View-invariant policy learning via zero-shot novel view
synthesis. arXiv, 2024.
[57] Samuel Triest, Matthew Sivaprakasam, Sean J Wang,
Wenshan Wang, Aaron M Johnson, and Sebastian Scherer.
Tartandrive: A large-scale dataset for learning off-road
dynamics models. In 2022 International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 2546–2552. IEEE,
2022.
[58] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin.
Attention is all you need.
In
Advances in neural information processing systems, pages
5998–6008, 2017.
[59] Homer Walke, Kevin Black, Abraham Lee, Moo Jin Kim,
Max Du, Chongyi Zheng, Tony Zhao, Philippe Hansen-
Estruch, Quan Vuong, Andre He, Vivek Myers, Kuan
Fang, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Bridgedata v2:
A dataset for robot learning at scale, 2023.
[60] Jianyuan Wang, Minghao Chen, Nikita Karaev, Andrea
Vedaldi, Christian Rupprecht, and David Novotny. Vggt:
Visual geometry grounded transformer. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, 2025.
[61] Shuzhe Wang, Vincent Leroy, Yohann Cabon, Boris
Chidlovskii, and Jerome Revaud. Dust3r: Geometric 3d
vision made easy, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.
14132.
[62] Jianing Yang, Alexander Sax, Kevin J. Liang, Mikael
Henaff, Hao Tang, Ang Cao, Joyce Chai, Franziska Meier,
and Matt Feiszli. Fast3r: Towards 3d reconstruction of

===== PAGE 14 =====
1000+ images in one forward pass. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), June 2025.
[63] Sarah Young, Dhiraj Gandhi, Shubham Tulsiani, Abhinav
Gupta, Pieter Abbeel, and Lerrel Pinto. Visual imitation
made easy, 2020.
[64] Fisher Yu, Haofeng Chen, Xin Wang, Wenqi Xian,
Yingying Chen, Fangchen Liu, Vashisht Madhavan, and
Trevor Darrell. Bdd100k: A diverse driving dataset for
heterogeneous multitask learning. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, pages 2636–2645, 2020.
[65] Tony Z Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation with
low-cost hardware.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705,
2023.
[66] Haoyu Zhen, Xiaowen Qiu, Peihao Chen, Jincheng Yang,
Xin Yan, Yilun Du, Yining Hong, and Chuang Gan. 3d-
vla: A 3d vision-language-action generative world model.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.09631, 2024.
[67] Brianna Zitkovich, Tianhe Yu, Sichun Xu, Peng Xu, Ted
Xiao, Fei Xia, Jialin Wu, Paul Wohlhart, Stefan Welker,
Ayzaan Wahid, et al. Rt-2: Vision-language-action models
transfer web knowledge to robotic control. In 7th Annual
Conference on Robot Learning, 2023.

===== PAGE 15 =====
APPENDIX A
CONTRIBUTIONS
Project Leads: Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch
Research Leads (contributed significantly to development
of data collection setup, data post-processing and policy
training): Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair,
Ashwin Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karamcheti,
Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama
Engineers (helped implement data collection, postprocessing
and policy learning infrastructure): Alexander Khazatsky,
Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ashwin Balakrishna, Siddharth
Karamcheti, Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama,
Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Kirsty Ellis, Peter David Fagan,
Masha Itkina, Marion Lepert, Jason Ma, Patrick Tree Miller,
Jimmy Wu, Huy Ha, Youngwoon Lee, Kaiyuan Wang, Kevin
Black, Cheng Chi, Kyle Hatch, Shan Lin, Jingpei Lu, Abdul
Rehman, Pannag R Sanketi, Cody Simpson, Quan Vuong,
Blake Wulfe, Ted Xiao, Jonathan Yang, Arefeh Yavary, Tony
Z. Zhao
Lab Leads (coordinated data collection in their respective
labs): Suraj Nair, Ashwin Balakrishna, Siddharth Karamcheti,
Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Lawrence Yunliang
Chen, Kirsty Ellis, Peter David Fagan, Joey Hejna, Masha
Itkina, Marion Lepert, Jason Ma, Patrick Tree Miller, Jimmy
Wu, Suneel Belkhale, Shivin Dass, Huy Ha, Abraham Lee,
Youngwoon Lee, Arhan Jain, Marius Memmel, Sungjae Park,
Ilija Radosavovic, Kaiyuan Wang, Albert Zhan, Archit Sharma,
Homer Walke
Policy Evaluators (ran robot evaluations for policy learning
experiments): Alexander Khazatsky, Suraj Nair, Ashwin
Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Joey
Hejna, Donovon Jackson, Tony Nguyen, Derick Seale
Data
Collectors: Alexander Khazatsky, Mohan Kumar
Srirama, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Kirsty Ellis, Peter David
Fagan, Masha Itkina, Marion Lepert, Jason Ma, Patrick
Tree Miller, Jimmy Wu, Suneel Belkhale, Shivin Dass,
Abraham Lee, Arhan Jain, Marius Memmel, Sungjae Park,
Ilija Radosavovic, Albert Zhan, Christopher Agia, Rohan
Baijal, Mateo Guaman Castro, Daphne Chen, Qiuyu Chen,
Trinity Chung, Jaimyn Drake, Ethan Paul Foster, Jensen Gao,
David Antonio Herrera, Minho Heo, Kyle Hsu, Jiaheng Hu,
Donovon Jackson, Charlotte Le, Yunshuang Li, Kevin Lin,
Roy Lin, Zehan Ma, Abhiram Maddukuri, Suvir Mirchandani,
Daniel Morton, Tony Nguyen, Abby O’Neill, Rosario Scalise,
Derick Seale, Victor Son, Stephen Tian, Andrew Wang,
Yilin Wu, Annie Xie, Jingyun Yang, Patrick Yin, Yunchu Zhang
Lead Advisor: Chelsea Finn
Advisors: Osbert Bastani, Glen Berseth, Jeannette Bohg,
Ken Goldberg, Abhinav Gupta, Abhishek Gupta, Dinesh
Jayaraman, Joseph J. Lim, Jitendra Malik, Roberto Martín-
Martín, Subramanian Ramamoorthy, Dorsa Sadigh, Shuran
Song, Jiajun Wu, Yuke Zhu, Thomas Kollar, Sergey Levine
APPENDIX B
DROID DATA FEATURES
All DROID data is recorded at 15Hz. Each DROID trajectory
contains the following elements:
• 3 stereo RGB camera streams at 1280x720 resolution
• robot joint positions and velocities (7D)
• robot end-effector pose and velocity in robot base frame
(6D)
• robot gripper position and velocity (1D)
Additionally each trajectory has the following metadata:
• 1-3 natural language instructions describing the task
performed in the trajectory, collected via crowdsourcing
• extrinsic camera calibration matrices for both exterior
cameras
• building name and data collector user ID
• scene type, as classified by GPT4V (see Section C)
APPENDIX C
SCENE TYPE CLASSIFICATION
We labeled scene types in an automated fashion using the
GPT4V API. For each scene, we sampled a random episode
from that scene and a random image from that episode. That
image along with the prompt shown in Listing C.1 was sent
for labeling. We then reviewed samples assigned "Other" to
confirm that we were not missing any major categories, and
then reassigned those labels manually.
APPENDIX D
INDENTIFYING UNIQUE SCENES
As mentioned in the main body of the paper, we define a
unique scene as a substantial change to the robot’s workspace.
For example, a home kitchen may have multiple unique scenes
associated with it in which the robot is placed in front of the
refrigerator, sink, stove top, or different sections of the counter.
We do not consider changes in the objects being interacted
with or changes to the poses of external cameras sufficient to
constitute a unique scene.
We label unique scenes as follows. During data collection,
a scene ID number is generated each time the user indicates
that robot or external cameras are moved. In total, there are
2,080 unique scene IDs in the dataset. Many of these scene IDs
correspond to the same scene based on the definition provided
above since users mislabel scene changes or move the robot
back to the same scene after moving it somewhere else.
In order to identify these duplicates, we collect scenes into
groups that share the same robot serial number, name of the
lab collecting the data, and building name. Within each group,
we order the scenes by timestamp. We then go through the
scenes sequentially, identifying cases where the scene did not
change sufficiently to constitute a unique scene. Finally, we
search across the remaining set of scenes within each group
to identify cases where a robot was placed at the same scene

===== PAGE 16 =====
Fig. 11: DROID data collection GUI. Top left: Screen for entering feasible tasks for the current scene. Tasks can either be selected from a
list of suggestions or typed as free-form instructions. Top right: Instruction screen – the GUI samples a task at random from the entered list
of feasible tasks and instructs the data collector to record a demonstration trajectory. This ensures wide coverage of possible tasks in each
scene and avoids bias towards easy or familiar tasks. Bottom left: Data collection screen – displays RGB and depth camera live streams.
Bottom right: The GUI periodically suggests scene changes between demonstration collections to ensure high scene diversity.
twice (though not sequentially), and also remove these from
the set of unique scenes.
This labeling approach has some limitations. For example,
because we group scenes based on robot serial number and only
identify duplicates within that group, if two different robots
are placed at the same scene then that scene would be counted
twice. Nevertheless, during labeling we were conservative in
our estimate of what constituted a unique scene, and as a result
believe that the number reported in the paper represents a
conservative estimate.
APPENDIX E
EVALUATION PROCEDURE
We evaluate learned policies on the following 6 tasks,
each with their own out of distribution variants. For each
evaluation, we ensure that each of the policies see a similar
initial distribution of object locations across trials.
Place Chips on Plate: A short horizon task in a lab setting,
where the task is to pick and place a bag of Doritos chips onto
a plate, with two distractor objects on the table. All objects
and the plate position are randomized between episodes on the
table. We collect 50 demonstrations, and mark success if the
chips are in the plate. We also consider two out of distribution
variants: (1) changing the type of chips to Sun Chips (different
size and color) and (2) putting two additional distractor objects
(an apple and an orange) on the table.
Put Apple in Pot: A medium horizon task in a lab setting,
where the task is to pick and place an apple into a pot and
then put a lid on the pot. The apple, pot, and lid position
are randomized between episodes on the table. We collect 60
demonstrations, and mark success if the apple is in the pot and
the lid is on the pot. The out of distribution variant involves
placing an additional plate on the table as a distractor.
Toasting: A medium horizon task in a lab setting, where the
task is to put an object on a toaster oven tray, then close the
toaster oven. The object and toaster position are randomized
between episodes on the table. We collect 150 demonstrations,
and mark success if the object is in the toaster oven and the
toaster oven is closed. The out of distribution variant consists
of considering novel objects to toast.
Closing Waffle Maker: A short horizon task in a lab setting,
where the task is to close a waffle maker. The waffle maker
position is randomized between episodes. We collect 70
demonstrations, and mark success if the waffle maker is closed.
The out of distribution variant consists of adding several
distractor objects on the table.
Clean up Desk: A long horizon task in an office setting, where
the task is to open a drawer, pick and place an eraser into
the drawer, and then close the drawer. The eraser position is
varied at the start of each episode at a set schedule of different
positions and orientations. We collect 50 demonstrations, and

===== PAGE 17 =====
Bathroom
Bedroom
Closet
Dining Room
Kitchen
Laboratory
Laundry Room
Living Room
Office
Fig. 12: Qualitative examples of scenes in DROID. We use GPT-4V to categorize scenes into 9 scene types. DROID contains robot manipulation
demonstrations in a wide range of “in-the-wild” scenes across 52 buildings. Please check out the interactive dataset viewer included in the
supplementary material to browse the dataset videos.
mark success if the drawer is closed with the eraser in it. The
out of distribution variant consists of adding distractor objects
on the desk, specifically a calculator, three whiteboard markers,
and a clip. We found that adding distractor objects inside the
desk caused all policies to fail.
Cook Lentils: A long horizon task in a kitchen setting, where
the task is to remove the lid off a pan, pour lentils into the pan,
and turn on the stove. The object positions are fixed. We collect
50 demonstrations, and mark success if all 3 stages of the task
are successfully completed. The out of distribution variant
consists of adding several distractor objects and a camera shift.
APPENDIX F
DIFFUSION POLICY DETAILS
In Section F-A we discuss the policy architecture and
hyperparameters used for all policy learning experiments. Then
in Section F-B, we describe how the various datasets in the
paper are used to construct training batches for policy learning.

===== PAGE 18 =====
Please classify the image into one of the following categories.
Respond with just the category name (do not include the category number).
1. Industrial office: industrial office tables and chairs, conference rooms,
conference TVs
2. Industrial kitchen: industrial refrigerator, sink, coffee maker
3. Industrial dining room: industrial setting with dining tables
4. Home office: desk or desk chairs in a home setting
5. Home kitchen: refrigerator, kitchen sink, kitchen tabletop in a home setting
6. Home dining room: dining table, dining chairs, in a home setting
7. Bedroom: room with a bed
8. Bathroom: Showers, baths, toilets, bathroom sinks
9. Living room: places with couches, armchairs, coffee tables, tvs in a home
setting
10. Hallway / closet: areas between rooms, situations where the robot is
interacting with a door or objects in a closet
11. Other: any other location that does not fit into those categories
12: Unknown: a scene that’s too hard to classify because the image is dark or too
close up
Listing C.1: The prompt provided to GPT4V in order to classify scene types.
A. Diffusion Policy Architecture and Hyperparameters
We build our diffusion policy [7] training pipeline on
the Robomimic codebase [37], which provides high quality
implementations of a number of different imitation learning
and offline RL algorithms. Given camera observations and a
language instruction for the task, within Robomimic, we define
observation keys corresponding to each of the two external
camera observations, a frozen DistilBERT [45] language
embedding, the 3D cartesian position of the gripper, and the
gripper state, which measures the degree to which the gripper
is closed.
For each of the camera observations, we first downsample
each image to a resolution of 128 × 128 and apply color jitter
and random cropping as a form of data augmentation. We then
use a ResNet-50 visual encoder pre-trained on ImageNet [11]
to produce embeddings for each of the visual inputs. These
embeddings are directly concatenated with all of the other
observation keys. These concatenated features are then fed
through an Observation Processing MLP with layers defined
in Table II. The output of this MLP is then passed to a U-
Net diffusion head which generates action trajectories. We
use an observation horizon of 2 to condition the diffusion
head, diffuse out 16-step action sequences, and step the first
8 actions open loop before re-running policy inference. All
relevant hyperparameters are defined in Table II. In line with
prior work [7], we use DDIM to diffuse out action trajectories
for improved efficiency.
All experiments use the training hyperparameters in Table II
with one exception: for the Cook Lentils task OOD experiment,
we train all policies with 50000 training steps due to the
increased complexity of the task.
Table II: Training Hyperparameters
Hyperparameter
Value
Batch Size
128
Optimizer
Adam
Learning Rate
1e-4
Learning Rate Scheduler
Linear
Train Steps
25000
Observation Processing MLP
[1024, 512, 512]
Image Resolution
(128, 128)
Crop Height
116
Crop Width
116
Diffusion Method
DDIM
EMA Power
0.75
U-Net Hidden Layer Sizes
[256, 512, 1024]
Observation Horizon
2
Prediction Horizon
16
Action Horizon
8
B. Training Batch Construction
For each evaluation task, we train policies with 3 different
methods of constructing training batches:
• No Co-training: trains a state of the art diffusion pol-
icy [7] using samples from the in-domain demonstrations
only.
• DROID (Ours): Trains a diffusion policy, but mixes
batches 50/50 between in-domain demonstrations and
DROID trajectories. For this experiment, we consider
the first 40K successful trajectories in DROID for which
language annotations were available at the time of policy
training. For the scene diversity experiments, we use a
7362 trajectory subset of these 40K trajectories.
• OXE [39]: Trains a diffusion policy, but mixes batches
50/50 between in-domain demonstrations and trajecto-
ries from a curated subset of the Open X-Embodiment

===== PAGE 19 =====
Fig. 13: Camera-to-robot base calibration qualitative results showing randomly picked scenes with synthetically rendered robot masks
using PyTorch3D [44]. Renderings are generated by importing the robot’s URDF-defined mesh and kinematic structure, applying joint angles
to compute the articulated pose, and transforming the mesh to the camera frame using the extrinsic Tcam→base. The extrinsic results are a
combination of results from automatic quality assessment-based filtering, outlined in Sec. G-A and running a tuned CtRNet-X model [34],
outlined in Sec. G-B. We provide quality assessment metrics for both approaches in our released extrinsic.
dataset [39] (OXE) used in Octo Model Team et al. [38].
We also omitted data from the language table split of OXE
to bring down the number of trajectories to a manageable
scale (400K trajectories).
Each of the above settings defer only in the data used
to construct each training batch: otherwise all policies have
identical architectures and are trained with the same training
parameters specified in Section F-A.
The in-domain demonstrations used for policy training
consist of only the demonstrations collected for each evaluation
task in Section E with one exception: for the Toasting and
Close Waffle Maker Tasks, one multi-task policy is trained on
the combination of their demonstrations. Thus, in this case,
the No Co-training policy defined above trains one diffusion
policy on the combined in-domain demonstrations, while the
Co-training experiments sample batches via a 50/50 split of
data from these combined in-domain demonstrations and data
from either DROID or OXE [39].
APPENDIX G
AUTOMATIC CAMERA CALIBRATION
In this section, we provide three comprehensive sets of
camera calibration matrices for the DROID dataset with their
respective quality assessment metrics, including camera-to-
base calibrations for 36k unique scenes with one of the
cameras calibrated with respect to base, camera-to-camera
calibrations for all scenes, and a curated superset of 24k
scenes encompassing all three methods and with both cameras
calibrated with respect to base, facilitating downstream robust
geometric understanding in robotics and 3D perception tasks.
Accurate camera calibration can be very useful in robotics
and 3D perception, as it enables the consistent encoding of
spatial geometry from visual data. It serves as the backbone
for various downstream tasks in robotics manipulation, such as
learning viewpoint invariant representations [6, 56] or ground-
ing actions through 3D vision-and-language models [52, 66],
thus enabling the robotics agents to achieve geometric and
visual generalization. In robotic applications, calibration allows
for precise scene understanding and interaction by aligning
sensor observations to a shared spatial frame.
The DROID dataset provides initial extrinsic parame-
ters (Sec. III) that transform coordinates from the camera
frame to the robot base frame. However, these calibrations are
not always accurate, primarily due to slight errors that can
arise during the manual calibration process, such as imperfect
checkerboard placements, variations in lighting conditions, or
inaccuracies in the OpenCV calibration procedure performed
at the start of each data collection session. Following the
data collection efforts outlined in Sec. III, we additionally
focus on providing robust calibration values for the col-

===== PAGE 20 =====
Fig. 14: Camera-to-Camera calibration qualitative results showing images, camera poses and pointclouds after our improved off-line and
post-hoc camera calibration as discussed in Sec. G-C. Scenes are picked from the top 30% quantile based on the number of matches after
calibration (See. Figure 16) External cameras are shown in red and blue. Here accumulated pointclouds from both views are shown after
deprojecting the depth maps using camera intrinsics and accumulated using relative camera poses between the two cameras.
lected dataset in an off-line post-hoc manner. This process
utilizes recent advances in deep-learning based perception
systems [30, 34, 41, 61] to automatically calibrate the relevant
cameras and provide quality metrics in a post-hoc manner.
The following sections details the automatic post-hoc cali-
bration of the pre-collected DROID dataset. It focuses on two
key types of calibration: (i) camera-to-robot base extrinsic
calibration, which computes the transformation between a
fixed camera and the robot’s kinematic base; and (ii) camera-
to-camera extrinsic calibration, which estimates the relative
pose i.e. orientation and translation between two external
cameras. Both are essential for fusing multi-view observations
as well as allowing the grounding of robotics actions in
3D, thus enabling spatially grounded robotic behaviors. This
section is divided into 3 sub-sections. We first detail the
quality metric assessment of existing camera-to-robot base
calibration (Sec. G-A) provided after the data-collect phase in
Sec. III. This would allow us to filter the extrinsics provided
during data-collect and provide certain guarantees regarding
the calibration already provided. We then explain how to
calibrate additional cameras with respect to the base using
a fully automatic pipeline [34] while also providing guarantees
in terms of quality metric i.e. reprojection error (Sec. G-B).
Furthermore, we discuss calibrating external cameras with
respect to each other in Sec. G-C. Finally, we include a
discussion on limitations and future work in Sec. G-D.
A. Quality Assessment of Existing Camera-to-Robot Base
Calibration
To evaluate the quality of the existing camera-to-robot base
transformation (Tcam→base), we project known 3D keypoints
X ∈RN×3, obtained via forward kinematics for given
joint angles θ, into the image plane using the extrinsic
matrix Tcam→base and camera intrinsics K. The 2D projections
x ∈RN×2 are computed as x = π(K · Tcam→base · X), where
π(·) denotes perspective projection followed by normalization.
These 2D keypoints are used to guide a Segment-
Anything (SAM) [29] instance segmentation model, which
predicts masks MSAM. Simultaneously, synthetic robot masks
MGT are rendered using PyTorch3D by importing the robot’s
mesh geometry and kinematic structure defined in its URDF.
Each joint angle configuration θ is applied to the URDF
to compute the articulated 3D mesh pose of the robot. The
resulting mesh is transformed to the camera frame using the
same extrinsic transformation Tcam→base. The posed mesh is
then rasterized into a binary silhouette using a differentiable
renderer with the corresponding camera intrinsics K. This
rendered mask serves as the ground-truth projection for
evaluating the alignment quality of the predicted segmentation.
We compute the Intersection-over-Union (IoU) between the
predicted and ground-truth masks as IoU = |MSAM∩MGT|
|MSAM∪MGT|. Only
SAM masks with confidence scores greater than 0.65 are
retained. A final threshold of IoU ≥0.7 is used to identify
high-quality projections, filtering out poorly aligned frames.
We report the mean IoU across 5 equally subsampled frames
in a video sequence as a measure of calibration quality. Using
this process, we identified a total of around 30k scenes with
either the left or right camera well calibrated with respect to
the scene. The whole process took around 1 day on 8-A100
Nvidia-GPUs.
B. Automatic Camera-to-Robot Base Calibration
To supplement the filtering strategy outlined in Sec. G-A
and bring in additional cameras for the camera-to-robot base
calibration, we additionally ran a tuned version of CtRNet-
X [34] out-of-the-box on all of DROID dataset. We used
the original codebase provided by the authors as well as
the hyperparameters tuned for the DROID dataset. CtRNet-X

===== PAGE 21 =====
is a feed-forward approach that detects keypoints on robot
using a neural-network and matches it with ground-truth 3D
keypoint trajectory in the video. Additionally, they utilize a
CLIP [41]-guided robot part detection to dynamically select
visible keypoints. Following author’s implementation, we use a
confidence threshold of 0.08, CLIP [41] models’ end-effector
confidence of 0.1 and robot base confidence of 0.05. To evaluate
the quality of our camera-to-base calibration, we compute the
reprojection error between detected 2D keypoints and their
corresponding 3D projections using the estimated camera pose
and intrinsics. To ensure robustness, we first discard low-
confidence 2D observations based on a fixed threshold. We
then apply a Median Absolute Deviation (MAD) based outlier
rejection strategy: we calculate the median of all reprojection
errors, compute the absolute deviation of each error from the
median, and identify inliers as those within 2.5 times the MAD.
This robust statistical filtering helps suppress the influence of
large outliers, leading to a more reliable estimate of the mean
reprojection error. For the final filtering, we select scenes with
a mean reprojection-error of 20 or less.
Through this process, we identified a total of around 12k
scenes which have either the left or right camera correctly
calibrated with respect to the base. This process took around
5 days on 8-A100 Nvidia GPUs. Since the number of well-
calibrated scenes overlapped between the two strategies, we are
able to calibrate around 36k unique scenes with either the left
or right camera well calibrated with respect to the scene using
the strategy outlined in Sec. G-A and Sec. G. Figure 13 shows
randomly selected scenes with synthetically rendered robot
masks using PyTorch3D [44], qualitatively demonstrating the
high accuracy of our filtered camera-to-robot base calibration
Images
Existing Calibration
Improved Calibration (Sec. F-C3)
Fig. 15: Camera-to-Camera calibration comparison showing
images (left), pointclouds from the existing calibration (middle) and
pointclouds after our improved calibration (right), as described in
Sec. G-C. Our improved calibration is able to handle challenging
scenes and produces well-aligned pointclouds from both cameras.
Note that depth maps which are used to deproject pointclouds using
camera intrinsic and extrinsic are not shown here.
from both the above-mentioned approaches. Furthermore, we
present the distribution of IoU and reprojection errors after
applying the improved calibration strategy and filtering. These
results are shown in Fig. 17.
C. Automatic Camera-to-Camera Calibration
We utilize the recently released DUSt3R [61] framework
for improved Camera-to-Camera calibration. DUSt3R [61]
supports both relative and absolute pose estimation. For
relative pose estimation, DUST3R proposes obtaining 2D–3D
correspondences between a query image IQ and a reference
image IB, followed by PnP-RANSAC [15, 31] using known
or estimated intrinsics. The relative pose between IQ and IB
can also be converted to an absolute pose in world coordinates
by aligning predicted pointmaps to a known scale, typically
via a ground truth pointmap for IB. However, this approach
still requires scale alignment post-optimization and can suffer
from ambiguities due to noise or uncertainty in the predicted
geometry.
We modify the pose optimization pipeline of DUSt3R [61]
to utilize depth maps and known camera intrinsics as an input
in the optimization pipeline to recover absolute poses in a con-
sistent metric scale. Specifically, we begin by running DUSt3R
inference on image pairs to extract dense 3D pointmaps. These
predicted pointmaps are aligned to ground truth 3D point
clouds—constructed from depth and intrinsics—to compute
a global scale factor. We then perform a global optimization
step, where the ground truth depth and intrinsics are fixed, and
camera poses are refined to minimize the 3D alignment error
across the scene. This approach enables accurate, scale-aware
absolute pose estimation without relying on post-hoc scale
alignment.
By fixing the depth and intrinsics during optimization, we
ensure that the recovered poses are globally consistent and
metrically accurate. Importantly, our method operates directly
on unmodified DUSt3R [61] outputs, requiring no additional
training or manual scale correction. Figures 14 and 15 show
qualitative improvements in point cloud alignment following
this optimization step.
To assess the quality of the recovered camera-to-camera
calibration, we report the number of matched points between
views, following the original implementation by [61]. For
each image pair, we extract high-confidence 3D points, project
them into 2D using known intrinsics, and identify reciprocal
nearest neighbors in 3D space as reliable matches. Formally,
given pointmaps P0 and P1, we define the match set M =
{(i, j) | NN(P0[i]) = j and NN(P1[j]) = i}. In practice, we
qualitatively observe that a higher number of reciprocal 3D
matches visually correlates with the geometric quality of
estimated poses (see Fig. 14). Although the number of matches
serves as a reasonable proxy for assessing the quality of
estimated poses, we observed some false positives in visually
cluttered scenes. To enhance robustness, one could lower the fil-
tering threshold or incorporate the quality assessment described
in Sec. G-A to further refine the filtering process. Figure 16
shows the distribution of match counts across labs. While some

===== PAGE 22 =====
Count / Cumulative
Number of Matched Points
Fig. 16: Distribution of matched points after camera-to-camera calibration for each unique lab along with the cumulative distribution. While
some labs achieve high-quality correspondence, others struggle to reach the same level — often due to challenging lighting or clutter. The
cumulative curve (solid curve line) highlights the accumulation of matched points across all scenes, helping to identify the top quantile of
well-calibrated camera pairs within each lab. These high-confidence matches are especially important as they inform downstream selection of
reliable scenes. Note that the first image from each video was used for pose refinement using the modified DUSt3R [61] pipeline described in
Sec. G-C.
Results after Sec. G-A 
Results after Sec. G-B 
Fig. 17: Distribution of respective metrics i.e. IOU and mean
reprojection errors after thresholding and filtering with the strategy
outlined in Sec. G-A and Sec. G-B respectively.
labs exhibit strong geometric consistency, others struggle due
to challenging conditions like clutter or poor lighting. For all
videos, the first frame was used for pose refinement via our
modified DUSt3R [61] pipeline. Future improvements could
include ensembling predictions across frames or leveraging
temporal consistency to further stabilize pose estimation or
finetuning DUST3R-like methods on table-top cluttered datasets
observed in robotics manipulation settings.
D. Limitations and Future Work
Calibrating a large-scale dataset like DROID is a challenging
task. To ensure accuracy and provide guarantees at each step,
we divided the calibration process into three distinct stages.
Since the complete process is fully automatic, there are still
some false positives and future work could look at further
improving on these inconsistencies. Part of our camera-to-base
calibration relied on running an out-of-the-box model which
was trained on Franka panda robot. While successful, its zero-
shot generalizability to other robots (without requiring further
training or finetuning) remains to be seen.
Future work could look at using foundation models to
segment out the robot or gripper and estimating keypoints
on specific parts of the robot. This could provide a more
generalizable solution that could be readily applied to any robot
collected data in-the-wild. Our Camera-to-Camera calibration
relied on a recent paradigm in 3D deep learning, namely the
prediction of point-maps. Despite using a modified version of
DUSt3R [61], which utilized privileged depth information for
pose optimization, it relied on the original checkpoints provided
by the authors and hence also borrowed the limitations of the
original model. Despite decent success, the model at times fails
on scenes with clutter and challenging table-top settings with
little to no overlap between images. As the quality of these
models keeps improving [60, 62], we believe it would be a
valuable direction to leverage these improved models for more
robust camera-to-camera calibration, particularly in cluttered
and low-overlap scenarios where traditional feature matching
or earlier models struggle.
E. Conclusion
The approaches outlined in each of the aforementioned
sections i.e. Sec. G-A, Sec. G-B and Sec. G-C have different
guarantees in terms of quality metrics. Hence, for the final
calibration release we offer 3 different sets of camera calibration
matrices. The first one contains Camera-to-Robot base calibra-
tion from 36k unique scenes with either the left or right camera
calibrated with respect to the robot base. This includes results
after the combined calibration methods outlined in Sec. G-A
and Sec. G-B. The second set of calibration includes all Camera-
to-Camera calibration matrices, i.e. the relative transformations
for all scenes in DROID dataset using the approach outlined
in Sec. G-C. Finally, we also release a third set of calibration
with includes a superset of all methods which, totaling around
24k scenes with both cameras calibrated with respect to the
base and with a mix of 3 different approaches and individual
guarantees. In this superset, we use an IOU threshold of 0.6, a
reprojection error of 20 and top 30% quantile based on number
of matches for each stage of calibration described earlier in
Sections G-A, G-B and G-C respectively. We hope this effort
is useful for 3D vision and robotics manipulation research
and also serves an inspiration for off-line automatic camera

===== PAGE 23 =====
calibration of in-the-wild robotics manipulation datasets.

===== PAGE 24 =====
DROID
Bridge V2
RH20T
RT-1
Fig. 18: Distribution of skills, i.e., verbs, for DROID and existing large robot manipulation datasets. Top to bottom: DROID, Bridge V2 [59],
RH20T [14], RT-1 [2]. DROID features a long tail of diverse verb classes that is only matched by Bridge V2, while the RH20T and RT-1
datasets have a more constrained set of skills.

===== PAGE 25 =====
Stationary
Containers
Textile
Furniture
Utensils
Appliances
Clothes
Hardware
Toys
Accessories
Sports
Kitchen Tools
Personal Care
Food
Fig. 19: Distribution of interacted objects in DROID, grouped by category. The robot interacts with a wide range of everyday objects.

===== PAGE 26 =====
Fig. 20: Joint distribution of verbs and interacted objects in DROID. Most objects have a diverse range of interactions that are performed on
them.
