
===== PAGE 1 =====
AgiBot World Colosseo: A Large-scale Manipulation Platform
for Scalable and Intelligent Embodied Systems
Team AgiBot-World∗
Project website: https://agibot-world.com/
Code: https://github.com/OpenDriveLab/AgiBot-World
1M
500k
0
No. Trajectories
7.7×
BridgeDatav2
DROID
A Universe of Robot Data
Human-in-the-loop
Versatile Scenarios
Robot Platform: AgiBot G1
•
1M+ Trajectories
•
217 Tasks
•
3,000+ Objects
•
All-Purpose Sensor Setup
RGBD Cameras
Visuo-tactile Sensor
•
Dual-arm Humanoid
•
6-Dof Dextrous Hand
Tele-
operator
Robot
Manual
Review
VLM
Action
Expert
46
66
78
0
30
60
90
Performance
RDT
GO-1 w/o Latent Planner
GO-1
RT-1
AgiBot World
Foundation Model Support: GO-1
Fully Open-source
Dataset & Model
Community
Latent Planner
AgiBot World Colosseo
Codes
Multi-robot Collaboration
Visuo-Tactile
Bimanual Tool-use
Logistics
Training Hub
32%
100+ Robots
Fig. 1: Introducing AgiBot World Colosseo, an open-sourced large-scale manipulation platform comprising data, models,
benchmarks and ecosystem. AgiBot World stands out for its unparalleled scale and diversity compared to prior counterparts.
A suite of 100 dual-arm humanoid robots is deployed. We further propose a generalist policy (GO-1) with the latent action
planner. It is trained across diverse data corpus with a scalable performance of 32% gain compared to prior arts.
Abstract— We explore how scalable robot data can address
real-world challenges for generalized robotic manipulation. In-
troducing AgiBot World, a large-scale platform comprising over
1 million trajectories across 217 tasks in five deployment sce-
narios, we achieve an order-of-magnitude increase in data scale
compared to existing datasets. Accelerated by a standardized
collection pipeline with human-in-the-loop verification, AgiBot
World guarantees high-quality and diverse data distribution. It
is extensible from grippers to dexterous hands and visuo-tactile
sensors for fine-grained skill acquisition. Building on top of
data, we introduce Genie Operator-1 (GO-1), a novel generalist
policy that leverages latent action representations to maximize
data utilization, demonstrating predictable performance scaling
with increased data volume. Policies pre-trained on our dataset
achieve an average performance improvement of 30% over
those trained on Open X-Embodiment, both in in-domain and
out-of-distribution scenarios. GO-1 exhibits exceptional capabil-
ity in real-world dexterous and long-horizon tasks, achieving
over 60% success rate on complex tasks and outperforming
prior RDT approach by 32%. By open-sourcing the dataset,
tools, and models, we aim to democratize access to large-scale,
high-quality robot data, advancing the pursuit of scalable and
general-purpose intelligence.
∗This work is a joint effort among The University of Hong Kong, AgiBot
Inc., Shanghai Innovation Institute and Shanghai AI Lab. For detailed
authorship, please consult our website and GitHub repository.
I. INTRODUCTION
Manipulation is a cornerstone task in robotics, enabling
the agent to interact with and adapt to the physical world.
While significant progress has been made in general-purpose
foundational models for natural language processing [1]
and computer vision [2], robotics lags behind due to the
difficulty of (high-quality) data collection. In the controlled
lab setting, simple tasks such as pick-and-place have been
well studied [3], [4]. Yet for the open-set real-world setting,
tasks spanning from fine-grained object interaction, mobile
manipulation to collaborative tasks, remains a formidable
challenge [5]. These tasks require not only physical dexterity
but also the ability to generalize across diverse environment
and scenarios, a merit beyond the reach of current robotic
systems. The widely accepted reason is the lack of high-
quality data—unlike images and text, which are abundant and
standardized, robotic datasets suffer from fragmented clips
due to heterogeneous hardware and unstandardized collection
procedure, leading to low-quality and inconsistent outcome.
In this work we ask, how could we resolve the real-world
complexity effectively by scaling up real-world robot data?
arXiv:2503.06669v4  [cs.RO]  4 Aug 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
Recent efforts, such as Open X-Embodiment (OXE) [6],
have addressed by aggregating and standardizing exist-
ing datasets. Despite advancements on large-scale cross-
embodiment learning, the resulting policy is constrained
within naive, short-horizon tasks and can weakly generalize
to out-of-domain scenarios [4]. DROID [7] collected expert
data through crowd-sourcing from diverse real-life scenes.
The absence of data quality assurance (with human feedback)
and the reliance on a constrained hardware setup (i.e., featur-
ing fixed, single-arm robots), limit its real-world applicability
and broader effectiveness. More recently, Lin et al. [8]
explored scaling laws governing generalizability across intra-
category objects and environments, albeit limited to a few
simple, single-step tasks. These efforts represent a notable
advancement toward developing generalist policies, moving
beyond the traditional focus on single-task learning within
narrow domains [9], [3]. Nevertheless, existing robot learning
datasets remain constrained by their reliance on short-horizon
tasks in highly controlled laboratory environments, failing
to adequately capture the complexity and diversity inher-
ent in real-world manipulation tasks. To achieve general-
purpose robotic intelligence, it is essential to develop datasets
that scale in size and diversity while capturing real-world
variability, supported by general-purpose humanoid robots
for robust skill acquisition, a standardized data collection
pipeline with assured quality, and carefully curated tasks
reflecting real-world challenges.
As depicted in Fig. 1, we introduce
AgiBot World
Colosseo, a full-stack large-scale robot learning platform
curated for advancing bimanual manipulation in scal-
able and intelligent embodied systems. A full-scale 4000-
square-meter facility is constructed to represent five major
domains—domestic, retail, industrial, restaurant, and office
environment—all dedicated to high-fidelity data collection in
authentic everyday scenarios. With over 1 million trajectories
collected from 100 real robots, AgiBot World offers un-
precedented diversity and complexity. It spans over 100 real-
world scenarios, addressing challenging tasks such as fine-
grained manipulation, tool usage, and multi-robot synergistic
collaboration. Unlike prior datasets, AgiBot World dataset
collection is carried out with a fully standardized pipeline,
ensuring high data quality and scalability, while incorporat-
ing human-in-the-loop verification to guarantee reliability.
Our hardware setup includes mobile base humanoid robots
with whole-body control, dexterous hands, and visuo-tactile
sensors, enabling rich, multimodal data collection. Each
episode is meticulously designed, featuring multiple camera
views, depth information, camera calibration, and language
annotations for both the overall task and each individual
sub-steps. This well-rounded hardware setup, combined with
various long-horizon, real-world tasks, opens new avenues
for developing next-generation generalist policies and fosters
diverse future research in robotics.
Our experimental results highlight the transformative po-
tential of the AgiBot World dataset. Policies pre-trained on
our dataset achieve an average success rate improvement
of 30% compared to those trained on the prior large-scale
robot dataset OXE [6]. Notably, even when utilizing only
a fraction of our dataset—equivalent to 1/10 of the data
volume in hours compared to OXE—the generalizability
of pretrained policies is elevated by 18%. These findings
underscore the dataset’s efficacy in bridging the gap between
controlled laboratory environments and real-world robotic
applications. Following our dataset, to address the limitations
of previous robot foundation models that heavily rely on in-
domain robot datasets, we present Genie Operator-1 (GO-
1), a novel generalist policy that utilizes latent action rep-
resentations to enable learning from heterogeneous data and
efficiently bridges general-purpose vision-language models
(VLMs) with robotic sequential decision-making. Through
unified pre-training on web-scale data, spanning human
videos to our high-quality robot dataset, GO-1 achieves
superior generalization and dexterity, outperforming prior
generalist policies such as RDT [10] and our variant without
latent action planner. Moreover, we demonstrate that GO-
1’s performance exhibits robust scalability with increasing
dataset size, underscoring its potential for sustained advance-
ment as larger datasets become available.
Beyond its immediate impact, AgiBot World lays a strong
foundation for future research in robotic manipulation. By
open-sourcing the dataset, toolchain, and pre-trained models,
we aim to foster community-wide innovation, enabling re-
searchers to explore more authentic and diverse applications
from household assistant to industrial automation. AgiBot
World is more than yet another dataset; it is a step toward
scalable, general-purpose robotic intelligence, empowering
robots to tackle the complexities of the real world.
Contribution. 1) We construct AgiBot World dataset, a
multifarious robot learning dataset accompanied by open-
source tools to advance research on policy learning at scale.
As a pioneering initiative, AgiBot World employs an in-
clusive optimized pipeline, from scene configuration, task
design, data collection, to human-in-the-loop verification,
which ensures unparalleled data quality. 2) We propose
GO-1, a robot foundation policy using latent action rep-
resentations to unlock web-scale pre-training on web data.
Empowered by AgiBot World dataset, it outperforms prior
generalist policies in generalization and dexterity.
Limitation. All evaluations are conducted in real-world
scenarios. We are currently developing the simulation en-
vironment, aligning with the real-world setup and aiming
to reflect real-world policy deployment outcome. It would
thereby facilitate fast and reproducible evaluation.
II. RELATED WORK
Data scaling in robotics. Robot learning datasets from
automated scripts or human teleoperation have enabled pol-
icy learning, with early efforts like RoboTurk [19] and
BridgeData [12] offering small-scale datasets with 2.1k and
7.2k trajectories, respectively. Larger datasets, such as RT-
1 [14] (130k trajectories), expand scopes yet remain limited
to few environments and skills. Open X-Embodiment [6]
aggregates various datasets into a unified format, growing
to more than 1.4 million trajectories, as a consequence it

===== PAGE 3 =====
Dataset
Traj.
Skill
Scene
Detailed
Annotation
Cam.
Calibration
Arm Type
Dex.
Hand
Failure
Recovery
Human-in-
the-loop
Collection
RoboNet [11]
162k
n/a
10
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
scripted
BridgeData [12]
7.2k
4
12
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
human teleop
BC-Z [13]
26k
3
1
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
human teleop
RT-1 [14]
130k
8
2
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
human teleop
RH20T [15]
13k
33
7
✗
✓
Single
✗
✗
✗
human teleop
RoboSet [16]
98.5k
6
11
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
30% human / 70% scripted
BridgeData V2 [17]
60.1k
13
24
✗
✗
Single
✗
✗
✗
85% human / 15% scripted
DROID [7]
76k
86
564
✗
✓
Single
✗
✗
✗
human teleop
RoboMIND [18]
55k
36
n/a
✗
✓
Single+Dual
✓
✗
✗
human teleop
Open X-Embodiment [6]
1.4M
217
311
(✗)
✗
Single+Dual
✗
✗
✗
dataset aggregation
AgiBot World Dataset
1M+
87
106
✓
✓
Dual
✓
✓
✓
human teleop
TABLE I: Comparison to existing datasets. AgiBot World features the largest number of trajectories to date. We replicate
real-world environment at a 1:1 scale for the industrial and retail scenarios, which are barely present before. Extensive human
annotations are offered, including item, scene, skill (sub-task segmented), and task-level annotations. Notably, to expand
data applicability and potential, we include imperfect data (i.e., failure recovery data with annotated error states) and tasks
with dexterous hands. To ensure data quality, we adopt a human-in-the-loop philosophy: the policy learning is performed
on collected demonstrations. The deployment results are adopted as feedback to improve the collection protocol.
suffers from significant variability in embodiments, obser-
vation perspectives, and inconsistent data quality, limiting
its overall effectiveness. More recently, DROID [7] moves
towards scaling up scenes for greater diversity by crowd-
sourcing demonstrations yet falls short in data scale and
quality control. Prior datasets above generally face limita-
tions in data scale, task practicality, and scenario naturalness,
compounded by inadequate quality assurance and hardware
restrictions, which impedes generalist policy training. As
shown in Tab. I, our dataset addresses these gap adequately.
We build a data collection facility spanning five scenarios
to reconstruct real-world diversity and authenticity. With
over 1 million trajectories gathered by skilled teleoperators
through rigorous verification protocols, AgiBot World uti-
lizes humanoid robots equipped with visuo-tactile sensors
and dexterous hands to enable multimodal demonstrations,
setting it apart from previous efforts. Unlike Pumacay et
al. [20], which serves as a simulation benchmark for evaluat-
ing generalization, what we propose is a full-stack platform
with data, models, benchmarks, and ecosystem.
Policy learning at scale. Robotic foundation models often
co-evolve with the development of dataset scale, equipping
robots with escalating general-purpose capabilities through
diverse, large-scale training. Several prior arts use web-scale
video only to facilitate policy learning given the limited scale
of action-labeled robot datasets [21], [22], [23]. Another line
of work lies in the use of large, end-to-end models trained on
robot trajectories with robotics data scaling up [4], [24], [14],
[25]. For instance, RDT [10] employs Diffusion Transform-
ers, initially pre-trained on heterogeneous multirobot datasets
and fine-tuned on over 6k dual-arm trajectories, showcasing
the benefits of pre-training on diverse sources. π0 [26] uses
a pre-trained VLM backbone and a flow-based action expert,
advancing dexterous manipulation for complex tasks like
laundry. LAPA [27] introduces the use of latent actions as
pre-training targets; however, its latent planning capability is
not preserved for downstream tasks. Building on a variety
of innovative ideas from recent research, we advance the
field by transferring web-scale knowledge to robotic control
through the adaptation of vision-language models (VLMs)
with latent actions, leveraging both human videos and robot
data for scalable training. Our work demonstrates how the
integration of a latent action planner enhances long-horizon
task execution and enables more efficient policy learning,
significantly improving upon existing generalist policies.
III. AGIBOT WORLD: PLATFORM AND DATA
AgiBot World is a full-stack and open-source embodied
intelligence ecosystem. Based on the hardware platform
developed by us, AgiBot G1, we construct AgiBot World—
an open-source robot manipulation dataset collected by more
than 100 homogeneous robots, providing high-quality data
for challenging tasks spanning a wide spectrum of real-life
scenarios. The latest version contains 1,001,552 trajectories,
with a total duration of 2976.4 hours, covering 217 specific
tasks, 87 skills, and 106 scenes. We go beyond basic tabletop
tasks such as pick-and-place in lab environments; instead,
concentrate on real-world scenarios involving dual-arm ma-
nipulation, dexterous hands, and collaborative tasks. AgiBot
World aims to provide an inclusive benchmark to drive the
future development of advanced and robust algorithms.
We plan to release all resources to enable the community
build upon AgiBot World. The dataset is available under
the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license, along with the model
checkpoints and code.
A. Hardware: A Versatile Humanoid Robot
The hardware platform is the cornerstone of AgiBot
World, determining the lower limit of its quality. The stan-
dardization of hardware is also the key to streamlining
distributed data collection and ensuring reproducible results.
We meticulously develop a novel hardware platform for
AgiBot World, distinguished by visuo-tactile sensors, durable
6-DoF dexterous hands with humanoid configuration.
As illustrated in Fig. 1, our robotic platform features dual
7-DoF arms, a mobile chassis, and an adjustable waist. The

===== PAGE 4 =====
Teleoperator
Training
Data
Collection
Data
Upload
Data
Processing
Quality
Check
Failure
Recovery
Annotation
Data
Delivery
Data
Discard
No: 
Discard
Edge-side
Cloud-side
Task Succeed
Failed
No
Yes
Validity
Varification
Model
Training
Human-in-the-loop
Feedback
Failure Reason
Categorization
Fig. 2: Data collection pipeline. We embrace a human-in-
the-loop framework to ensure high quality, enriched with
detailed annotations and error recovery behaviors. Human
feedback plays a critical role not only in post-collection re-
view but also in actively guiding the data collection process,
which is largely overlooked in prior efforts.
end effectors are modular, allowing for the use of either a
standard gripper or a 6-DoF dexterous hand, depending on
task requirements. For tasks necessitating tactile feedback, a
gripper equipped with visuo-tactile sensors is utilized. The
robot is outfitted with eight cameras: an RGB-D camera
and three fisheye cameras for the front view, RGB-D or
fisheye cameras mounted on each end-effector, and two
fisheye cameras positioned at the rear. Image observations
and proprioceptive states, including joint and end-effector
positions, are recorded at a control frequency of 30 Hz.
We employ two teleoperation systems: VR headset control
and whole-body motion capture control. The VR controller
maps the hand gesture to the end-effector translation and
rotation, which is subsequently converted to joint angles
through inverse kinematics. The thumbsticks and buttons
on the controller enable robot base and body movement,
while the trigger buttons control end-effector actuation.
However, the VR controller restricts the dexterous hand
to only a few predefined gestures. To extensively unlock
our robot’s capabilities, we adapt a motion capture system
which records the data of human joints, including the fingers,
and maps them to robot posture, enabling more nuanced
control, including individual finger movements, torso pose,
and head orientation. This system provides posture flexibility
and execution precision that are required in achieving more
complex manipulation tasks.
B. Data Collection: Protocol and Quality
The data collection session, as shown in Fig. 2, can
be broadly divided into three phases. (1) Before formally
commencing data collection, we first conduct preliminary
data acquisition to validate the feasibility of each task
and establish corresponding collection standards. (2) After
feasibility validation and review of the collection standards,
skilled teleoperators arrange the initial scene and formally
begin data collection according to the established standards.
All data undergoes an initial validity verification locally,
such as verifying the absence of missing frames. Once
the data is confirmed to be complete, it is uploaded to
the cloud for the next phase. (3) During post-processing,
the data annotators will verify whether each episode meets
the collection standards established in phase 1 and provide
language annotations.
Failure recovery. During data collection, teleoperators
may occasionally commit errors, such as inadvertently drop-
ping objects while manipulating the robotic arms. However,
they are often able to recover from these errors and success-
fully complete the task without requiring a full reconfigura-
tion of the setup. Rather than discarding such trajectories, we
retain them and manually annotate each with corresponding
failure reasons and timestamps. These trajectories, referred to
as failure recovery data, constitute approximately one percent
of the dataset. We consider them invaluable for achieving
policy alignment [28] and failure reflection [29], essential for
advancing the next generation of robot foundation models.
Human-in-the-loop. Concurrent with feedback collec-
tion from data annotators, we adopt a human-in-the-loop
approach to assess and refine data quality. This process
involves an iterative cycle of collecting a small set of
demonstrations, training a policy, and deploying the resulting
policy to evaluate data availability. Based on the policy’s
performance, we iteratively refine the data collection pipeline
to address identified gaps or inefficiencies. For instance,
during real-world deployment, the model exhibits prolonged
pauses at the onset of actions, aligning with data annotator
feedback highlighting inconsistent transitions and excessive
idle time in the collected data. In response, we revise the data
collection protocols and introduce a post-processing step to
eliminate idle frames, thereby enhancing the dataset’s overall
utility for policy learning. This feedback-driven methodology
ensures continuous improvement in data quality.
C. Dataset Statistics and Analysis: Beyond Scale
AgiBot World is developed through a large-scale data col-
lection facility, which spans over 4,000 square meters. This
extensive environment contains over 3,000 unique objects in
a variety of scenes, meticulously designed to reflect real-
world settings. The dataset covers a wide range of scenarios
and scene setups, ensuring both scale and diversity in the
pursuit of generalizable robot policy.
Reconstructing the diversity of the real world. Key
statistics of our dataset are presented in Fig. 3. AgiBot World
provides extensive coverage across five key domains: do-
mestic, retail, industrial, restaurant, and office environments.
Within each domain, we further define specific scene cate-
gories. For instance, the domestic domain includes detailed
environments such as bedrooms, kitchens, living rooms, and
balconies, while the retail domain features distinct areas
like shelving units and fresh produce sections. Our dataset
also features over 3,000 distinct objects, systematically cat-
egorized across various scenes. These objects span a wide
range of everyday items, including food, furniture, clothing,
electronic devices, and more. The distribution of object

===== PAGE 5 =====
(c) Extensive Skill Set
Trajectories
(a) Diverse Scenarios and Objects
Open X-Embodiment v1.0
DROID
AgiBot World
DROID
OXE
Line of 100 Trajectories
(b) Long-Horizon Tasks
Domestic
Retail
Industrial Restaurant Office
Proportion of 
Domains
Real-world
AgiBot World
OXE
Controlled Env.
5-10   10-15   15-20   20-25   25-30  30-60   60-90 90-120 120-150 >150 
<5
seconds
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Proportion
Num.
300
200
100
0
Fig. 3: Dataset Statistics. a) AgiBot World dataset covers the vast majority of robotic application scenarios, as well as a
wide range of interactive objects. b) Our dataset features long-horizon tasks, with the majority of trajectories ranging from
30s to 60s. In contrast, widely used datasets, such as DROID, primarily consist of trajectories ranging from 5s to 20s, while
OXE v1.0 predominantly contains trajectories within 5s. c) AgiBot World dataset focuses on valuable atomic skills, spanning
a wide spectrum of skills, each supported by a minimum of 100 trajectories (red dashed line above).
categories, as illustrated in Fig. 3(a), highlights the relative
frequency of different object types within each scene.
Long-horizon manipulation. A distinguishing feature of
the AgiBot World dataset is its emphasis on long-horizon
manipulation. As shown in Fig. 3(b), prior datasets predom-
inantly focus on tasks involving single atomic skills, with
most trajectories lasting no more than 5 seconds. In contrast,
AgiBot World is built upon continuous and complete tasks
composed by multiple atomic skills, like “make a coffee”.
Trajectories in our dataset typically span approximately 30
seconds, some of which last over 2 minutes. We also provide
key-frame and instruction annotation for each sub-step to
facilitate policy learning in such challenging scenarios.
Comprehensive skill coverage. In terms of task design,
while generic atomic skills, such as “pick-and-place”, domi-
nate the majority of tasks, we have intentionally incorporated
tasks that emphasize less frequently used but highly valuable
skills, such as “chop” and “plug” (as shown in Fig. 3(c)).
This ensures that our dataset adequately represents a broad
spectrum of skills, providing sufficient data for each to
support robust policy learning.
IV. AGIBOT WORLD: MODEL
To effectively utilize our high-quality AgiBot World
dataset and enhance the policy’s generalizability, we pro-
pose a hierarchical Vision-Language-Latent-Action (ViLLA)
framework with three training stages, as depicted in Fig. 4.
Compared to Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model where
action is vision-language conditioned, the ViLLA model
predicts latent action tokens, conditioned on the generation
of subsequent robot control actions.
In Stage 1, we project consecutive images into a latent ac-
tion space by training an encoder-decoder latent action model
(LAM) on internet-scale heterogeneous data. This allows
the latent action to serve as an intermediate representation,
bridging the gap between general image-text inputs and
robotic actions. In Stage 2, these latent actions act as pseudo-
labels for the latent planner, facilitating embodiment-agnostic
long-horizon planning and leveraging the generalizability of
the pre-trained VLM. Finally, in Stage 3, we introduce the
action expert and jointly train it with the latent planner to
support the learning of dexterous manipulation.
A. Latent Action Model
Despite considerable advancements in gathering diverse
robot demonstrations, the volume of action-labeled robot data
remains limited relative to web-scale datasets. To broaden
the data pool by incorporating internet-scale human videos
lacking action labels and cross-embodiment robot data, we
employ latent actions [30] in Stage 1 to model the inverse
dynamics of consecutive frames. This approach enables the
transfer of real-world dynamics from heterogeneous data
sources into universal manipulation knowledge.
To extract latent actions from video frames {It,It+H},
the latent action model is constructed around an inverse
dynamics model-based encoder I(zt|It,It+H) and a forward
dynamics model-based decoder F(It+H|It,zt). The encoder
employs a spatial-temporal transformer [31] with casual tem-
poral masks following Bruce et al. [30], while the decoder
is a spatial transformer that takes the initial frame and
discretized latent action tokens zt = [z0
t ,...,zk−1
t
] as input,
with k set to 4. The latent action tokens are quantized using
a VQ-VAE objective [32], with a codebook of size |C|.
B. Latent Planner
With the aim of establishing a solid foundation for scene
and object understanding and general reasoning ability, the
ViLLA model harnesses a VLM pre-trained on web-scale

===== PAGE 6 =====
Large Vision-language Model
…
InternViT
Tokenizer
Latent Planner
Action Expert
Task Instructions
Multiview Images
LAM
Encoder
LAM
Decoder
Latent Action Tokens
𝐼!"#
𝐼!
𝑧$ 𝑧% 𝑧&
𝑧'(%
𝐼#!"#
“Hang the 
T-shirt”
𝑎$ 𝑎% 𝑎&
𝑎#(%
Action Chunk
…
Latent Action
Robot Action
…
Reconstructed
Human Videos
Web-scale
Vision-language
Data
Cross-Embodiment
Robot Data
GO-1
𝑝
𝑎)
𝑧$ 𝑧% 𝑧&
𝑧'(%
Latent Planning
Stage-1
Stage-2
Stage-3
Image & Text
AgiBot
World
…
…
𝑧)
…
𝑎*
…
Pre-training Data
𝑧)
Fig. 4: We propose GO-1, a generalist policy featuring general reasoning and long-horizon planning capabilities. The latent
action model (LAM) learns universal action representations from web-scale video data (i.e., human videos from Ego4D),
and quantizes them into discrete latent action tokens. The latent planner conducts temporal reasoning through latent action
prediction, bridging the gap between image-text inputs and robot actions generated by the action expert.
vision-language data and incorporates a latent planner for
embodiment-agnostic planning within the latent action space.
We use InternVL2.5-2B [33] as the VLM backbone due
to its strong transfer learning capabilities. The two-billion
parameter scale has proven effective for robotic tasks in our
preliminary experiments, as well as in prior studies [10],
[26]. Multiview image observations are first encoded using
InternViT before being projected into the language space.
The latent planner consists of 24 transformer layers, which
enable layer-by-layer conditioning from the VLM backbone
with full bidirectional attention.
Specifically, given multiview input images
 Ih
t ,Il
t ,Ir
t

(typ-
ically from the head, left wrist, and right wrist) at timestep
t, along with a language instruction l describing the ongo-
ing task, the latent planner predicts latent action tokens:
P
 zt|Ih
t ,Il
t ,Ir
t ,l

, with supervision produced by the LAM
encoder based on the head view: zt := I(Ih
t ,Ih
t+H). Since
the latent action space is orders of magnitude smaller than
the discretized low-level actions used in OpenVLA [4], this
approach also facilitates the efficient adaptation of general-
purpose VLMs into robot policies.
C. Action Expert
To achieve high-frequency and dexterous manipulation,
Stage 3 integrates an action expert that utilizes a diffusion
objective to model the continuous distribution of low-level
actions [34]. Although the action expert shares the same
architectural framework as the latent planner, their objectives
diverge: the latent planner generates discretized latent action
tokens through masked language modeling, while the action
expert regresses low-level actions via an iterative denoising
process. Both expert modules are conditioned hierarchically
on preceding modules, including the action expert itself,
ensuring coherent integration and information flow within
the dual-expert system.
The action expert decodes low-level action chunks, de-
noted by At = [at,at+1,...,at+H] with H = 30, using pro-
prioceptive state
pt
over an interval of H
timesteps:
A
 At|Ih
t ,Il
t ,Ir
t , pt,l

. During inference, the VLM, latent plan-
ner, and action expert are synergistically combined within
the generalist policy GO-1, which initially predicts k latent
action tokens and subsequently conditions the denoising
process to produce the final control signals.
V. EXPERIMENT AND ANALYSIS
We evaluate the real-world performance of policies pre-
trained on different data sources including the AgiBot World
dataset, demonstrating the effectiveness credited from the
GO-1 model in policy learning.
A. Experiment Setup
1) Evaluation Tasks
Here we choose a comprehensive set of tasks that span var-
ious dimensions of policy capabilities from AgiBot World for
evaluation, including tool-usage (Wipe Table), deformable
objects manipulation (Fold Shorts), human-robot interac-
tion (Handover Bottle), language-following (Restock Bev-
erage), etc. Moreover, we design 2 unseen scenarios for each
task, covering position generalization, visual distractors, and
language generalization, delivering thorough generalization
evaluations for policies. The evaluated tasks, also partially
shown in Fig. 5, are: 1) “Restock Bag”: Pick up the snack
from the cart and place it on the supermarket shelf; 2) “Table
Bussing”: Clear tabletop debris into the trash can; 3) “Pour
Water”: Grasp the kettle handle, lift the kettle and pour water
into the cup; 4) “Restock Beverage”: Pick up the bottled
beverage from the cart and place it on the supermarket shelf;
5) “Fold Shorts”: Fold the shorts laid flat on the table in half
twice; 6) “Wipe Table”: Clean water spills using the sponge.
Scoring rubrics. The evaluation metric employs a normal-
ized score, computed as the average across 10 rollouts per
task, scenario, and method. Each episode scores 1.0 for full
success, with fractional scores for partial success, enabling
a nuanced performance assessment.

===== PAGE 7 =====
RDT-1B
GO-1 w/o Latent Planner
GO-1
Average
0.36
0.47 0.49
0.60
0.42
0.47
0.60
0.66
0.46
0.58
0.66
0.78
Restock Bag
Table Bussing
Pour Water
Fold Shorts
Restock Beverage
0.84 0.83
0.93
0.98
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
Restock Bag
0.54
0.60
0.87
1.00
(a) Experiment Setups for Policy Evaluation
(b) Real-world Experiment Results
Restock Beverage
Fold Shorts
Pour Water
Table Bussing
0.13
0.41 0.42
0.67
Wipe Table
𝝅𝟎
Fig. 5: Is GO-1 a more powerful robot generalist policy? We evaluate GO-1 against previous generalist policy RDT-1B
and our baseline without the latent planner, with all policies pre-trained on AgiBot World beta. Across all tasks and
comparisons, GO-1 outperforms baselines by a large margin. The incorporation of latent planner boosts performance on
complex tasks such as “Fold Shorts” and improves generalizability in task “Restock Beverage” in great extent.
(a) In-distribution Performance
0.15
0.43
0.51
(b) Out-of-distribution Performance
Average
Restock Bag
Table Bussing
Wipe Table
0.55
0.68
0.80
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
Open X-Embodiment (OXE)
AgiBot World (Alpha)
AgiBot World (Beta)
0.43
0.58
0.69
0.38
0.56
0.67
0.20
0.65
0.60
0.70
0.77
0.93
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
0.50
0.63
0.78
0.47
0.68
0.77
Fig. 6: Does AgiBot World dataset improve policy per-
formance and generalizability? Policies pre-trained on our
dataset outperform those trained on OXE in both seen (0.77
v.s. 0.47) and out-of-distribution scenarios (0.67 v.s. 0.38).
2) Implementation Details
The AgiBot World alpha dataset is an early-stage subset,
containing partial tasks and roughly 14% of the trajectories
in the full beta version. (a.k.a. last row in Tab. I). Following
the completion of the third-stage pre-training, the pre-trained
GO-1 exhibits basic competency in task completion. Unless
otherwise specified, we further enhance the model by fine-
tuning it using high-quality, task-specific demonstrations,
enabling adaptation to new tasks for evaluation. For GO-
1, fine-tuning is conducted with a learning rate of 2e-5, a
batch size of 768, and 30,000 optimization steps.
B. Does AgiBot World boost policy learning at scale?
We choose the open-source RDT [10] model to study how
much the AgiBot World dataset can help policy learning. The
task completion scores for three tasks are detailed in Fig. 6.
Models pre-trained on the AgiBot World dataset demonstrate
a significant improvement in the “Table Bussing” task,
nearly tripling performance. On average, the completion
score increases by 0.30 and 0.29 for in-distribution and
out-of-distribution setups, respectively. Notably, the AgiBot
0.41
0.59
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
Num of Training Trajectories
Performance
Completion Score
(a) Data Scalability
(b) Data Quality
All
Verified only
Fig. 7: Further analysis on: a) how model performance
scales with data size, and b) the impact of filtering undesir-
able data through manual review on policy learning.
World alpha dataset, despite having a significantly smaller
data volume than OXE (e.g., 236h compared to ∼2000h),
achieves a higher success rate, underscoring the exceptional
data quality of our dataset.
C. Is GO-1 a more capable generalist policy?
We evaluate GO-1 on five tasks of varying complexity,
categorized by their visual richness and task horizon. The
results, as shown in Fig. 5, are averaged over 30 trials
per task, with 10 trials conducted in a seen setup and 20
trials under variations or distractions. GO-1 significantly
outperforms RDT and π0, particularly in tasks such as “Pour
Water”, which demands robustness to object positions, and
“Restock Beverage”, which highlights instruction-following
capabilities. The inclusion of the latent planner yields an
average improvement of 0.12 task completion score.
D. Does GO-1’s ability scale with data size?
To investigate whether a power-law scaling relationship
exists between the size of pre-training data and policy
capability, we conduct an analysis using 10% subsets of the
alpha, 100% alpha, and beta dataset, where the number
of training trajectories are ranged from 9.2k to 1M. We
evaluate the out-of-the-box performance of resulting policies
on four seen tasks in pre-training. As shown in Fig. 7(a), the
policy’s performance exhibits a predictable power-law scal-
ing relationship with the number of trajectories, supported
by a Pearson correlation coefficient of r = 0.97.

===== PAGE 8 =====
E. How does data quality impact policy learning?
We explore the impact of quality checks introduced in
our human-in-the-loop data collection on policy learning.
Specifically, we provide an ablation study by fine-tuning
an RDT model using both verified (528 trajectories) and
unverified (482 trajectories) data from the “Wipe Table”
task. Verification refers to our “human-in-the-loop” quality
assurance method. As shown in Fig. 7(b), being larger in
quantity does not necessarily translate to improved perfor-
mance, while a smaller set of human-verified data yields
a 0.18 boost in the completion score, underscoring the
importance of high-quality data for policy learning.
VI. CONCLUSION
We introduce AgiBot World, an open-source ecosystem
aimed at democratizing access to large-scale, high-quality
robot learning datasets. It is complete with toolchains and
foundation models to advance embodied general intelligence
through community collaboration. Our dataset distinguishes
itself through unparalleled scale, diversity, and quality, under-
pinned by carefully crafted tasks. Policy learning evaluations
confirm AgiBot World’s value in enhancing performance and
generalizability. To further explore its impact, we develop
GO-1, a generalist policy utilizing latent actions for web-
scale pre-training. GO-1 excels in real-world complex tasks,
outperforming existing generalist policies and demonstrating
scalable performance with increased data volume. We invite
the broader community to collaborate in fostering an ecosys-
tem and maximizing the potential of our extensive dataset.
REFERENCES
[1] OpenAI, “GPT-4 Technical Report,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774,
2023. 1
[2] N. Ravi, V. Gabeur, Y.-T. Hu, R. Hu, C. Ryali, T. Ma, H. Khedr,
R. R¨adle, C. Rolland, L. Gustafson, et al., “SAM 2: Segment anything
in images and videos,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00714, 2024. 1
[3] C. Chi, S. Feng, Y. Du, Z. Xu, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, and S. Song,
“Diffusion Policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion,” in
RSS, 2023. 1, 2
[4] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Balakrishna, S. Nair,
R. Rafailov, E. Foster, G. Lam, P. Sanketi, et al., “OpenVLA: An
open-source vision-language-action model,” in CoRL, 2024. 1, 2, 3, 6
[5] J. Cui and J. Trinkle, “Toward next-generation learned robot manipu-
lation,” in Science Robotics, 2021. 1
[6] A. Padalkar, A. Pooley, A. Jain, A. Bewley, A. Herzog, A. Irpan,
A. Khazatsky, A. Rai, A. Singh, A. Brohan, et al., “Open X-
Embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and RT-X models,” in ICRA,
2024. 2, 3
[7] A. Khazatsky, K. Pertsch, S. Nair, A. Balakrishna, S. Dasari, S. Karam-
cheti, S. Nasiriany, M. K. Srirama, L. Y. Chen, K. Ellis, et al.,
“DROID: A large-scale in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset,” in
RSS, 2024. 2, 3
[8] F. Lin, Y. Hu, P. Sheng, C. Wen, J. You, and Y. Gao, “Data scaling
laws in imitation learning for robotic manipulation,” in ICLR, 2025.
2
[9] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-grained
bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware,” in RSS, 2023. 2
[10] S. Liu, L. Wu, B. Li, H. Tan, H. Chen, Z. Wang, K. Xu, H. Su,
and J. Zhu, “RDT-1B: a diffusion foundation model for bimanual
manipulation,” in ICLR, 2025. 2, 3, 6, 7
[11] S. Dasari, F. Ebert, S. Tian, S. Nair, B. Bucher, K. Schmeckpeper,
S. Singh, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “RoboNet: Large-scale multi-robot
learning,” in CoRL, 2019. 3
[12] F. Ebert, Y. Yang, K. Schmeckpeper, B. Bucher, G. Georgakis,
K. Daniilidis, C. Finn, and S. Levine, “Bridge data: Boosting gener-
alization of robotic skills with cross-domain datasets,” in RSS, 2022.
2, 3
[13] E. Jang, A. Irpan, M. Khansari, D. Kappler, F. Ebert, C. Lynch,
S. Levine, and C. Finn, “BC-Z: Zero-shot task generalization with
robotic imitation learning,” in CoRL, 2022. 3
[14] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, J. Dabis, C. Finn,
K. Gopalakrishnan, K. Hausman, A. Herzog, J. Hsu, et al., “RT-1:
Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale,” in RSS, 2023. 2,
3
[15] H.-S. Fang, H. Fang, Z. Tang, J. Liu, J. Wang, H. Zhu, and C. Lu,
“RH20T: A robotic dataset for learning diverse skills in one-shot,” in
RSS Workshops, 2023. 3
[16] H. Bharadhwaj, J. Vakil, M. Sharma, A. Gupta, S. Tulsiani, and V. Ku-
mar, “RoboAgent: Generalization and efficiency in robot manipulation
via semantic augmentations and action chunking,” in ICRA, 2024. 3
[17] H. R. Walke, K. Black, T. Z. Zhao, Q. Vuong, C. Zheng, P. Hansen-
Estruch, A. W. He, V. Myers, M. J. Kim, M. Du, et al., “BridgeData
v2: A dataset for robot learning at scale,” in CoRL, 2023. 3
[18] K. Wu, C. Hou, J. Liu, Z. Che, X. Ju, Z. Yang, M. Li, Y. Zhao, et al.,
“RoboMIND: Benchmark on multi-embodiment intelligence norma-
tive data for robot manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.13877,
2024. 3
[19] A. Mandlekar, Y. Zhu, A. Garg, J. Booher, M. Spero, A. Tung,
J. Gao, J. Emmons, A. Gupta, E. Orbay, S. Savarese, and L. Fei-
Fei, “RoboTurk: A crowdsourcing platform for robotic skill learning
through imitation,” in CoRL, 2018. 2
[20] W. Pumacay, I. Singh, J. Duan, R. Krishna, J. Thomason, and
D. Fox, “The colosseum: A benchmark for evaluating generalization
for robotic manipulation,” in RSS, 2024. 3
[21] Y. Du, S. Yang, B. Dai, H. Dai, O. Nachum, J. Tenenbaum, D. Schu-
urmans, and P. Abbeel, “Learning universal policies via text-guided
video generation,” in NeurIPS, 2024. 3
[22] K. Black, M. Nakamoto, P. Atreya, H. R. Walke, C. Finn, A. Ku-
mar, and S. Levine, “Zero-shot robotic manipulation with pre-trained
image-editing diffusion models,” in ICLR, 2024. 3
[23] Q. Bu, J. Zeng, L. Chen, Y. Yang, G. Zhou, J. Yan, P. Luo, H. Cui,
Y. Ma, and H. Li, “Closed-loop visuomotor control with generative
expectation for robotic manipulation,” in NeurIPS, 2024. 3
[24] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y. Chebotar, X. Chen, K. Choro-
manski, T. Ding, D. Driess, A. Dubey, C. Finn, et al., “RT-2: Vision-
language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control,”
in CoRL, 2023. 3
[25] D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black, O. Mees, S. Dasari,
J. Hejna, T. Kreiman, C. Xu, J. Luo, et al., “Octo: An open-source
generalist robot policy,” in RSS, 2024. 3
[26] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi, C. Finn,
N. Fusai, L. Groom, K. Hausman, B. Ichter, et al., “A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.24164, 2024. 3, 6
[27] S. Ye, J. Jang, B. Jeon, S. Joo, J. Yang, B. Peng, A. Mandlekar, R. Tan,
Y.-W. Chao, B. Y. Lin, et al., “Latent action pretraining from videos,”
in ICLR, 2025. 3
[28] Z. Zhang, K. Zheng, Z. Chen, J. Jang, Y. Li, C. Wang, M. Ding,
D. Fox, and H. Yao, “GRAPE: Generalizing robot policy via prefer-
ence alignment,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.19309, 2024. 4
[29] N. Shinn, F. Cassano, A. Gopinath, K. Narasimhan, and S. Yao,
“Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning,”
NeurIPS, 2023. 4
[30] J. Bruce, M. D. Dennis, A. Edwards, J. Parker-Holder, Y. Shi,
E. Hughes, M. Lai, A. Mavalankar, R. Steigerwald, C. Apps, et al.,
“Genie: Generative interactive environments,” in ICML, 2024. 5
[31] M. Xu, W. Dai, C. Liu, X. Gao, W. Lin, G.-J. Qi, and H. Xiong,
“Spatial-temporal transformer networks for traffic flow forecasting,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.02908, 2020. 5
[32] A. Van Den Oord, O. Vinyals, and K. Kavukcuoglu, “Neural discrete
representation learning,” in NeurIPS, 2017. 5
[33] Z. Chen, W. Wang, Y. Cao, Y. Liu, Z. Gao, E. Cui, J. Zhu, S. Ye,
H. Tian, Z. Liu, et al., “Expanding performance boundaries of open-
source multimodal models with model, data, and test-time scaling,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.05271, 2024. 6
[34] Q. Bu, H. Li, L. Chen, J. Cai, J. Zeng, H. Cui, M. Yao, and Y. Qiao,
“Towards synergistic, generalized, and efficient dual-system for robotic
manipulation,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08001, 2024. 6

===== PAGE 9 =====
APPENDIX
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We thank Remi Cadene and the LeRobot community for
their support and collaboration. In addition, we are grateful
to Shu Jiang, Chengshi Shi, Shenyuan Gao, Yixuan Pan, Yi
Xin and Peng Gao for their fruitful discussions. We also
extend our gratitude to the open-source community for the
insightful feedback and engagement throughout this project.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Core Contributors
The whole span of project, including data collection, algo-
rithm, experiment, and writing
Qingwen Bu, Guanghui Ren, Chiming Liu, Modi Shi,
Chengen Xie, Xindong He, Jianheng Song,
Yuxiang Lu, Siyuan Feng
Algorithm
Technical roadmap, model training, and evaluation
Roadmap and Methodology
Yao Mu, Li Chen, Yan Ding
Pre-training
Yi Liu, Yuxin Jiang, Xiuqi Cui
Post-training
Ziyu Xiong, Xu Huang, Dafeng Wei
Deployment & Evaluation
Guo Xu
Product & Ecosystem
System architecture design, project management, community
engagement
Chengyue Zhao, Shukai Yang, Huijie Wang, Yongjian Shen,
Jialu Li, Jiaqi Zhao, Jianchao Zhu, Jiaqi Shan
Manuscript Preparation
Manuscript outline, writing, and revising
Jisong Cai, Chonghao Sima
Data Curation
Data collection, quality check
Cheng Ruan, Jia Zeng, Lei Yang
Hardware & Software Development
Hardware design, embedded software development
Yuehan Niu, Cheng Jing, Mingkang Shi, Chi Zhang,
Qinglin Zhang, Cunbiao Yang, Wenhao Wang, Xuan Hu
Project Co-lead and Advising
Research direction, project coordination, technical advising
Maoqing Yao, yaomaoqing@agibot.com
Yu Qiao, qiaoyu@pjlab.org.cn
Hongyang Li, hongyang@sii.edu.cn
Jianlan Luo, Bin Zhao, Junchi Yan, Ping Luo
CHANGE LOG
Jan 2025: agibot-world alpha version release
• A sub-split (around 10%) of the dataset, containing
92,214 trajectories.
March 2025: full data release and technical report
• Initial submission to arXiv and reserach blog
• This version includes the complete manuscript with all
sections: introduction, methodology, results, discussion,
and appendix.
July 2025: IROS camera-ready update
• We conduct additional comparisons with π0.
