
===== PAGE 1 =====
Unified Video Action Model
Shuang Li
Yihuai Gao
Dorsa Sadigh
Shuran Song
Stanford University
https://unified-video-action-model.github.io/
Action
Observation
Action
Ot-1
Action
Video
Action
Video
Policy 
Input
Output
Forward Dynamics Inverse Dynamics
Video Model
Observation
Joint Latent 
Action Diffusion
Video Diffusion
Joint Sequence Model
Policy+Planner
(b) Random masked training supports ﬂexible Input-Output conﬁguration
Predicted
Mask
Input
(a) UVA Overview
Ot
Ot+1
At-1
At
At+1
Ot-1
Ot
Ot+1
At-1
At
At+1
Ot-1
Ot
Ot+1
At-1
At
At+1
Ot-1
Ot
Ot+1
At-1
At
At+1
Ot-1
Ot
Ot+1
At-1
At+1
At
At+1
Ot+1
Ot+1
At
Ot+1
At+1
Uniﬁed  Video Action Model
At
At
At-1
At-1
At
At+1
At-1
At
At+1
At-1
At
At+1
At-1
At
At+1
At-1
At+1
At
Fig. 1: Unified Video Action Model. (a) UVA features a joint video-action latent representation and decoupled video-action decoding. The
joint latent representation effectively models the underlying relationships between video and action sequences, while the decoupled diffusion
enables high-speed action inference by bypassing video generation. (b) By leveraging masked training, UVA supports flexible input-output
combinations for actions and videos. This versatility allows the model to function as a robot policy, video model, forward or inverse dynamics
model, or even a combined policy and video planner—all within a unified framework.
Abstract—A unified video and action model holds significant
promise for robotics, where videos provide rich scene infor-
mation for action prediction, and actions provide dynamics
information for video prediction. However, effectively combining
video generation and action prediction remains challenging, and
current video generation-based methods struggle to match the
performance of direct policy learning in action accuracy and
inference speed. To bridge this gap, we introduce the Unified
Video Action model (UVA), which jointly optimizes video and
action predictions to achieve both high accuracy and efficient
action inference. The key lies in learning a joint video-action
latent representation and decoupling video-action decoding. The
joint latent representation bridges the visual and action domains,
effectively modeling the relationship between video and action
sequences. Meanwhile, the decoupled decoding, powered by two
lightweight diffusion heads, enables high-speed action inference
by bypassing video generation during inference. Such a uni-
fied framework further enables versatile functionality through
masked input training. By selectively masking actions or videos, a
single model can tackle diverse functions beyond policy learning,
such as forward and inverse dynamics modeling and video
generation. Via an extensive set of experiments, we demonstrate
that UVA can serve as a general-purpose solution for a wide range
of robotics tasks without compromising performance compared
to methods tailored for specific applications. Results are best
viewed on our website.
I. INTRODUCTION
A unified video and action model that jointly learns an
agent’s actions and their effects on visual observations holds
great promise for robotics – videos provide rich environmental
context for predicting actions, while actions reveal how inter-
actions drive visual changes, enabling more accurate modeling
of real-world dynamics. However, despite its promise, previous
approaches have often failed to fully realize this potential.
A key challenge lies in the inherent mismatch between the
requirements of action and video generation. Action modeling
demands high temporal speed to capture dense, fine-grained
motions, while video generation requires high spatial resolu-
tion to produce high-fidelity visual outputs, which often results
in slower processing speeds.
Previous policy learning approaches have struggled to bal-
ance these conflicting requirements, often focusing on one
aspect at the expense of the other. For instance, action only
methods like [10, 25, 51] bypass video generation entirely.
While such approaches reduce computational complexity, they
overlook the benefits of video generation – adding observation
supervision helps the model learn scene dynamics, which
reduces overfitting to action history and enhances robustness
to visual disturbances. On the other hand, video generation
methods such as [14, 28] often first generate high-resolution
videos and then predict actions based on the generated videos.
While this hierarchical approach can utilize existing video
models, it also introduces significant drawbacks, including
slower processing speeds and the propagation of errors from
the generated video into action prediction.
To address these limitations, we propose UVA, a Unified
Video and Action Model designed to simultaneously model
videos and actions – capturing the underlying interactions be-
tween visuals and actions to enhance task understanding, while
maintaining high-speed action prediction during inference. We
propose the following three design choices to achieve this:
1) Unified Latent Video-Action Representation: UVA
introduces a unified latent representation that integrates both
visual and action data. Unlike traditional video generation
arXiv:2503.00200v3  [cs.RO]  24 Apr 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
based policy methods which rely on a hierarchical video
and action generation, UVA is trained simultaneously with
supervision from both video and action data. This enables
the model to capture the intricate dynamics shared between
the visual and action domains with reduced computational
overhead. Utilizing the rich scene information encoded in the
latent representation unlocks UVA’s superior performance in
understanding complex environments and delivering precise
action predictions.
2) Decoupled Video-Action Diffusion for Fast Inference:
To further enhance efficiency and achieve inference speed
comparable to action-only methods, UVA decouples video
generation from action prediction. During training, the model
employs two lightweight diffusion heads to decode video
observations and actions from the unified latent space. At
inference, this decoupling allows the system to bypass video
generation entirely, directly utilizing the latent representation
for fast action prediction. This design enables real-time policy
deployment without sacrificing performance, as it still retains
the rich representations learned during training from both
visual motions and robot action trajectories.
3) Mask Training for Flexibility: The ability to predict
both videos and actions through unified representations further
unlocks the potential to perform a diverse set of functions
using masked training. UVA can handle versatile functions that
go beyond traditional policy learning by masking inputs and
outputs as needed, as illustrated in Figure 1. This versatility en-
ables the model to tackle complex scenarios, such as operating
as a forward or inverse dynamics model, learning effectively
from video-only datasets where action labels are unavailable,
or simultaneously performing both low-level control and high-
level planning.
We evaluate UVA on seven publicly available benchmarks
to assess its diverse capabilities. UVA outperforms or matches
state-of-the-art approaches, demonstrating particularly strong
performance in multi-task settings. For instance, UVA outper-
forms the best baseline by 20% in success rate on PushT Mul-
titask [10, 16] and by 5% on Libero10 [30]. The experiments
show that UVA can serve as a general-purpose framework
for different robotics tasks without compromising performance
compared to methods tailored for specific applications. In sum,
the unified video action model is:
• Capable: UVA matches the state-of-the-art approaches
that are tailored for robot policy learning [10, 25] or
planning [14], especially for multi-task learning.
• Practical: The use of decoupled diffusion heads elim-
inates the need for video generation during policy in-
ference, and the use of lightweight diffusion heads re-
duces the costs of the denoising process. As a result,
UVA achieves a similar speed as Diffusion Policy [10],
making it practical for robot applications.
• Versatile: Beyond policy learning, UVA can also serve
as a forward dynamics model for planning, as an inverse
dynamics model to generate actions, a video generation
model, or a combined policy and video planner.
II. RELATED WORK
There is a rich literature on video generation where the dom-
inant approach includes diffusion-based methods [3, 4, 18, 21–
23, 37–40] or autoregressive-based methods [13, 17, 45–
47, 50]. Our model utilizes the ideas from both of these
techniques, as we will discuss in section III. Another line
of related work involves the use of masked training in robot
learning. In this section, we will review both video generation
and masked training approaches used in robotics.
Video Generation for Policy Learning: Video models aid
policy learning by simulating task dynamics and predicting
future states. Models like [14, 28] leverage video generation
techniques to produce high-quality videos, which are then used
for action prediction. PAD [19] jointly trains video generation
and action prediction; however, it cannot predict future ac-
tions independently of future image generation, resulting in
slower inference. The work by [49] leverages video models to
generate object flow as an intermediate representation, which
captures physical interactions and is used to predict actions
for skill transfer across different robotic embodiments and
environments. In [24], a video diffusion model is fine-tuned
on robotics tasks, with the latent representations from the pre-
dicted videos serving as inputs to a policy network for action
prediction. Existing approaches that utilize video generation
for policy learning often suffer from slow inference speeds,
making them impractical for real-world applications. Addition-
ally, these methods often require auxiliary components, such
as low-level policies [14] or image-tracking techniques [49],
to extract actions from the generated videos. As a result, the
final action accuracy suffers from compounded errors in video
generation and action prediction.
Video Generation as Dynamics Models: Video models can
serve as dynamics models by predicting future states condi-
tioned on current observations and actions, enabling robots to
simulate and plan tasks. GameGen-X [9] introduces a diffu-
sion transformer model for generating and controlling open-
world game videos, enabling interactive simulations. Genie [5]
utilizes a foundation world model to transform static images
into interactive 3D environments, providing rich simulations
for embodied agents. Additionally, [43] demonstrates how
diffusion models can act as real-time game engines, gener-
ating dynamic and interactive scenarios to facilitate decision
making. These advancements highlight the versatility of video
generation models in robotic applications. In this work, we
propose a unified video and action model, showcasing its
ability to address both policy learning and dynamics modeling
within a single framework.
Masked Training: Recent works in robotics have explored
masked training techniques [31, 34, 48]. For example, Liu
et al. [31] and Wu et al. [48] randomly mask observations
and actions and reconstruct the missing portions. Their results
show that masked training improves generalization to down-
stream tasks and enables the model to be used for various
applications. However, these methods primarily rely on low-
dimensional state observations rather than videos, which are

===== PAGE 3 =====
Ot
At-1
…
…
Transformer
History 
Observation
Ot-h+1
Repeat to 
get N tokens
History 
Action Chunk
At-h
Channel-wise 
Concat
1
Flatten as N tokens
2
…
L
Future Observation Ot+1
Future 
Actions At
Joint 
Latent 
1 2 3 4 … 3 4
…
…
Zt+h
Zt+1
Ot+h, At+h-1
Each 
Latent
Token
Noisy O!"#
$
ϵ%
Video 
Diffusion
Noisy At
…
ϵ&
…
Masked Future 
Observation 
Ot+1
Temporal-wise Concatenation
Action
Diffusion
Ot+h
…
All
Latent
Token
Flatten as N tokens
1
2
…
L
…
…
…
…
…
…
…
Fig. 2: Network Architecture. Given historical observations {Ot−h+1, . . . , Ot} and corresponding action chunks {At−h, . . . , At−1}, the
model predicts future observations {Ot+1, . . . , Ot+h} and actions {At, . . . , At+h−1}. Each image observation is represented as a sequence of
N tokens, and each image corresponds to an action chunk with L actions sampled at a higher frequency. During training, future observations
are used with randomly masked tokens, while at inference time, the model starts from an empty image to predict the complete image. History
observations, actions, and masked future observations are combined, passed through a Transformer, and decoded into actions and videos
using diffusion heads.
more natural but harder to predict. Radosavovic et al. [34]
first pretrain a model to predict actions or observations using
masked training and then finetune the model or use a linear
probe for downstream tasks. Their work focuses solely on
action prediction results. In contrast, our method does not
require finetuning for downstream tasks and can be directly
applied to various functions beyond policy learning, such as
video generation, forward dynamics, and inverse dynamics.
III. UNIFIED VIDEO ACTION MODEL
In robotics, we are interested in learning generalizable
policies that map observations to actions. However, this ob-
jective often tends to overfit the training data, thereby limiting
the ability of learned policies to adapt to new scenarios.
In contrast, video generation [4, 36] demonstrates strong
generalization to novel scenes and supports training on datasets
without actions. However, effectively leveraging video data for
policy learning presents challenges such as the ability to match
the high temporal speed required for outputting dense, fine-
grained motions. In this section, we discuss our approach to
leveraging video-generation methods for robotics tasks.
Problem Statement: Given a sequence of image observations
{Ot−h+1, . . . , Ot} and action chunks {At−h, . . . , At−1},
where
h
is
the
history
horizon,
our
goal
is
to
pre-
dict the future actions {At, . . . , At+h′−1} and observations
{Ot+1, . . . , Ot+h′}, where h′ is the future horizon. Each
action chunk, e.g., At ∈RL×m consists of L actions, and each
action has m dimensions. We set h = h′ in the experiments.
For simplicity, we refer to both as h in the following sections.
We first introduce the model with complete video and
action inputs and outputs (§III-A-§III-C). We then discuss
how masked training can flexibly learn from any combination
of video and action data (§III-D), enabling UVA to perform
various functions, including policy learning, video generation,
forward and inverse dynamics, and integrated policy and
planning.
As shown in Figure 2, our method encodes the history of
observations and actions (§III-A), along with masked future
observations (§III-B), and passes them to the Transformer
[44]. For the masked observations, we randomly mask tokens
within the future observation frames during training and train
the model to reconstruct them. During inference, the model
generates the full set of tokens, starting from an empty
sequence. In §III-C, we then discuss the choice of decoupling
video-action diffusion for fast inference addressing the high
temporal speed demand of robot policies.
A. Encode History
We first process the historical image observations through
a pre-trained VAE encoder (kl-f16) [35] to obtain their latent
representations. Each image is encoded into a latent map of
dimensions Rw×h×c, where w and h represent the width and
height, and c is the latent dimension. The map is then flattened
and processed by a fully-connected (FC) layer, projecting each
element into a d-dimensional latent vector. Thus, each image
is represented as a sequence of N visual tokens, each with
d-dimensional features.
For history actions, we use a higher sampling frequency
compared to observations, as observations typically exhibit
redundancy and minimal changes over short time intervals.
Each image observation (e.g., Ot−h+1) corresponds to L
actions within an action chunk (e.g., At−h). We repeat the
action chunk M times to match the number of visual tokens
as shown in Figure 2. The repeated sequence is then passed
through an FC layer, and converted into a sequence of N
action tokens, each with a d-dimensional latent representation.
These history visual and action tokens serve as conditions for
predicting future observations and actions.
B. Masked Autoencoder for Observation Prediction
Our work is closely related to [8, 27]. Their method focuses
on image generation conditioned on class labels. It begins by

===== PAGE 4 =====
generating a subset of visual tokens for the image and then
sequentially predicts additional tokens based on the previously
generated ones, following an autoregressive process to com-
plete the image. This step-by-step autoregressive approach has
been shown to outperform the single-step generation of all
visual tokens simultaneously. To facilitate step-by-step pre-
diction, they employ a masked autoencoder [20] framework.
During training, some visual tokens are randomly masked, and
the model is trained to reconstruct these masked tokens.
We follow this setting for video prediction. Future ob-
servation frames {Ot+1, . . . , Ot+h} are processed similarly
to historical observations: they are passed through a VAE
encoder to extract latent representations, followed by an FC
layer, resulting in a sequence of N tokens per frame, each
with a d-dimensional latent vector. Some tokens are randomly
masked out during training. These visual tokens are concate-
nated channel-wise with historical visual tokens and action
tokens, as shown in Figure 2, to form a new sequence of
latent features. Latents from h different time steps are then
temporally concatenated with latent representations from other
time steps to produce a N × h latent sequence. The resulting
sequence is passed through a Transformer to fuse the video
and action information, resulting in a set of joint video-
action latent representations, {Zt+1, . . . , Zt+h}, where each
latent (e.g., Zt+1) contain N latent tokens. These joint video-
action latent tokens are then used to reconstruct the future
observations and corresponding action chunks.
For tasks that involve language instructions, such as
Libero10 [30], we incorporate language information using
cross-attention in the Transformer. The language input is
encoded into a d-dimensional token using the CLIP [33] text
encoder. To emphasize the language, this token is repeated M
times and appended to the N ×h video-action tokens, resulting
in a total of N × h + M tokens. These tokens are then passed
through the Transformer to fuse the multimodal information.
We take the first N ×h outputs of the Transformer as the joint
video-action latent representations, {Zt+1, . . . , Zt+h}.
To minimize information leakage across different frames,
we consistently mask the same positions across all video
frames. At inference time, the model generates complete
videos by predicting all tokens starting from an empty se-
quence. At each autoregressive generation step, visual tokens
at the same position across all video frames are generated
simultaneously as shown in Supplementary §X-A. Unlike
image generation conditioned on class labels or text, historical
observations provide rich contextual information about the en-
vironment. We found that a single-step generation is sufficient
to generate high-quality observations, while using additional
steps can further enhance the quality.
C. Decoupled Video and Action Diffusions
Previous video generation-based policy learning methods
rely on hierarchically generating videos first and then predict-
ing actions, leading to slow speed and accumulated errors.
To address this, we propose decoupling video and action
prediction while training them jointly. During training, video
generation helps the latent representations Z capture more
detailed scene information, which benefits action prediction.
During policy inference, where speed is crucial, the decoupled
design allows us to skip video generation and decode only
the actions. Similarly, for video generation, where quality is
the priority, we can perform multi-step autoregressive video
generation while bypassing action decoding.
We introduce two lightweight diffusion decoders for action
and video prediction (see Figure 2). Instead of performing the
denoising over the entire model [10], our approach restricts the
denoising process to the lightweight decoders, delivering more
efficient performance. This design preserves the generative
strengths of diffusion models while significantly reducing
inference time.
The joint latent Z serves as the conditioning input for the
diffusion decoders. The video diffusion decoder processes each
latent token zi ∈Zt+1 = {z1, . . . , zN} to predict individual
patches in the video frame, which are then reshaped and
sent to the VAE decoder to reconstruct the full frame Ot+1.
For the action diffusion decoder, all latent tokens in Zt+1
are aggregated using a convolutional layer, followed by an
MLP layer, to produce an action latent. This latent encodes
both visual and action-related information for the current step
and serves as the condition for the action diffusion model to
generate the action chunk At. We use the diffusion head (base
size) from [27] for both action and video prediction.
During training, the decoders learn to predict the noise
added to noisy action chunks or video patches. The action
diffusion loss [21, 37, 39] is defined as:
Laction(Z, A) = Eϵ,k
[︂
∥ϵ −ϵθ(A(k)|k, Z)∥2]︂
,
where A(k) represents the noisy actions, ϵ is the added noise,
k is the diffusion timestep, Z is the joint video-action latent
tokens, and ϵθ(A(k)|k, Z) is the predicted noise.
Similarly, the video diffusion loss is defined as:
Lvideo(Z, O) = Eϵ,k
[︄
1
N
N
∑︂
i=1
∥ϵi −ϵϕ(Oi,(k)|k, zi)∥2
]︄
,
where Oi,(k) represents the i-th noisy visual token in the video
frame O(k) at diffusion timestep k, N is the total number of
visual tokens in a video frame, ϵi is the added noise to the i-th
visual token, zi is the latent token in Z, and ϵϕ(Oi,(k)|k, zi)
is the predicted noise for the i-th token.
The total loss at each time step is the combination of the
action and video diffusion losses: L = Laction + Lvideo. The
overall loss is calculated as the sum of these losses over the
time horizon h. During policy inference or video generation,
the decoders iteratively refine pure noise into actions or videos
using the learned denoising process.
D. Masked Training with Flexible Objectives
Instead of training the model solely on the task of predicting
future observations and actions based on historical data, we
propose a masked training approach with multiple training ob-
jectives using a unified framework. As illustrated in Figure 1,

===== PAGE 5 =====
the model is trained on five distinct tasks by varying input
and output combinations. Unused components are masked and
replaced with a learned mask token. The action loss and video
loss are selectively applied to supervise the model depending
on the specific task.
This training approach enables us to fully utilize the data in
various combinations and supports the use of incomplete data,
such as video data without corresponding actions. This masked
training strategy enables the model to perform a diverse
range of functions, including acting as a robot policy, video
model, forward and inverse dynamics model, and a combined
policy and planner. For instance, when given only image
observations, the model can function as an inverse dynamics
model to generate action labels from videos. Additionally, this
strategy helps prevent overfitting to specific tasks, enhancing
the model’s overall versatility and robustness.
IV. EVALUATION
In the following sections, we evaluate UVA’s capacities as
policy §V, a video generator §VI, a forward dynamics model
§VII, and finally an inverse dynamics model §VIII. In each
scenario, we compare UVA with methods that are specifically
tailored for the corresponding application.
V. UVA AS POLICY
We first investigate the effectiveness of UVA on policy
learning. As noted by Kim et al. [25], different policy designs
excel in different settings. Their experiments show that while
Diffusion Policy [10] performs better in single-task setups,
it falls behind OpenVLA in multi-task scenarios. To com-
prehensively evaluate the performance of UVA as a policy,
we conduct extensive evaluations in single-task and multi-task
settings, and in simulated (Figure 3) and real environments
(Figure 4). For simulation tasks, we used the same random
seeds for different methods for a fair comparison. For real-
world tasks, to minimize evaluation bias, all evaluations use
public benchmarks with released datasets—no additional
training data were collected.
A. Simulation Benchmarks
Single-Task Evaluation: We first evaluate single-task scenar-
ios, where different policies are trained for different tasks. We
compare UVA with the baselines on the PushT [10, 16] and
Toolhang [32] tasks. We report the success rates of the best-
performing checkpoint, averaging across 50 rollouts for PushT
and Toolhang, respectively.
Multi-Task Evaluation: We train one policy for multiple
task goals defined by image or text. We introduce a new
task, PushT-M, which extends the PushT task to include
varying target “T” positions. We evaluate the best-performing
checkpoint over 50 rollouts and report its average reward.
Libero10 [30] has 10 tasks. We evaluate each task in 50
different environments with varying random seeds and report
the average rewards across all 10 tasks. See Supplementary
§X-B for details.
Single Task
Push-T
ToolHang
Multi-Goal Push-T
Multi-Task Evaluation
...
Multi-Goal Libero10
...
Fig. 3: Simulation Environments. We evaluate UVA and baselines
in both single-task and multi-task settings. In the multi-task scenario,
the goal can be defined through the image observations (PushT-M)
or language descriptions (Libero10).
Single-Task ↑
Multi-Task ↑
Speed ↓
PushT
Tool
PushT-M
Libero10
DP-C [10]
0.91
0.95
0.68
0.53
0.50s
DP-T [10]
0.78
0.76
0.63
0.58
0.36s
OpenVLA [25]
0.35
0.18
0.22
0.54
1.52s
UniPi [14]
0.42
0.00
0.19
0.00
24.07s
π0 [2]
-
-
-
0.85
0.09s
π0-FAST [2]
-
-
-
0.60
0.09s
UVA-action
0.45
0.62
0.46
0.86
0.22s
UVA
0.98
0.88
0.88
0.90
0.23s
TABLE I: Policy Learning Results in Simulation. UVA has
higher success rate than the baselines in most settings, with a strong
performance in multi-task scenarios. Speed is measured by a single
action trajectory inference. All methods, except OpenVLA, infer 16
action steps per trajectory with 8 executed steps. OpenVLA infers
one action at a time, so it is run 8 times to match the inference time
for 8 executed actions.
B. Real-world Benchmarks
Training Data: We use two publicly available datasets in-
troduced by [11] and [29] without collecting any additional
training data. Both benchmarks collect data using the handheld
UMI [11] device. We used three tasks, including Cup Arrange-
ment, Towel Folding, and Mouse Arrangement, for training,
and tested them on the ARX X5 arm.
Single-Task Evaluation: We train a single-task policy on the
Cup task and directly compare it with the Diffusion Policy
model provided by the author [11], both trained on the same
data. We evaluate each method over 20 rollouts with varying
initial configurations and report the average success rate.
Multi-Task Evaluation: We train one model with all three
tasks and then evaluate their performance on each task in-
dependently. We randomly selected 500 episodes from each
dataset and combined them into a dataset to train both our
model and Diffusion Policy [11]. Since the training data were
collected independently in prior works, all evaluation cases are
Out-of-Distribution (OOD), involving unseen environments,
objects, and robots. To ensure a wide testing distribution,

===== PAGE 6 =====
Cup Arrangement
Towel Folding
Mouse Arrangement
Training Data 
Out-of-Distribution Multi-Task Testing Scenarios 
Cup: Initial Conﬁgs (10%)
Cup: Different Backgrounds (8.3%)
Cup: Different Objects & Distractor Objects (10%)
Towel Folding (33.3%)
Mouse Arrangement (33.3%)
...
...
Cup: Unseen Grippers (5%)
Fig. 4: Real-World Out-of-Distribution Evaluation. We use the training data provided by prior works [11, 46]. The test scenario is
significantly out-of-distribution with unseen environments, objects, robots, and even gripper colors. The numbers in the parentheses show
the percentage of such category of test cases in evaluation. Please refer to our website for all evaluation rollouts.
Single-Task ↑
OOD Multi-Task ↑
Speed ↓
Cup
Cup
Towel
Mouse
DP-UMI [11]
0.95
0.50
0.70
0.40
70ms
UVA
0.85
0.65
0.70
0.80
95ms
TABLE II: Success Rate on Real-World UMI [11] tasks. We
compare UVA with DP-UMI which is designed for UMI tasks. UVA
performs worse than DP-UMI in the single-task setting but achieves
better performance in the multi-task setting. Both UVA and DP-UMI
use 16 denoising steps. Speed is measured by inferring a single action
trajectory consisting of 16 actions.
we include cases with varying initial configurations, object
distractors, background textures, and an unseen gripper color
(green), as shown in Figure 4. Each policy is evaluated over 60
rollouts, with 20 rollouts per task. See Supplementary §X-C
for details.
C. Baselines
We compared with the following alternative methods, all
methods are trained or fine-tuned on the same data as our
model and tested using the same random seed and initial states.
• Diffusion Policy [10] is a state-of-the-art visuomotor
policy model. We use both CNN-based network [DP-C]
and Transformer-based design [DP-T] from their original
implementation for all simulation tasks. For real-world
tasks, we used an improved Diffusion Policy [11], which
is optimized for UMI data. It leverages a CLIP-pretrained
[33] ViT-B/16 [1] vision encoder, significantly improving
visual understanding. We refer to it as [DP-UMI].
• OpenVLA [25] is a state-of-the art vision-language-
action (VLA) built on 7B Llama 2 [41] for multi-task
setting. It is trained on a diverse dataset encompassing a
wide range of robots, tasks, and environments. We fine-
tune OpenVLA on each task to optimize its performance.
• π0 [2] is an open-source VLA model designed for
general-purpose robot control. It employs a flow match-
ing based architecture to generate continuous action se-
quences. Trained on a diverse dataset spanning multiple
robot embodiments and tasks, π0 demonstrates strong
zero-shot and fine-tuned performance. We use the offi-
cially released checkpoints: π0 and π0-FAST, both fine-
tuned on Libero tasks.
• UniPi [14] is a video-based policy model that generates
videos first and then predicts actions based on the gener-
ated videos. Since the official implementation is not avail-
able, we used the code from [26]. This implementation
relies on pixel-wise video generation, which results in
slower video generation speed. For action inference, we
train a model that processes two consecutive generated
video frames using a pretrained ResNet-50 for the PushT
and PushT-M tasks, and a ResNet-152 for the Tool Hang,
Libero10, and Cup Arrangement.
• UVA-action is an ablation of UVA, where the video
generation part is excluded, and the model is trained
solely as a policy model. This baseline aims to evaluate
the effectiveness of joint video and action training.
D. Policy Learning Results
We evaluate policy learning results with UVA compared
to the baseline methods on a few different axes: 1) action
prediction accuracy, 2) inference speed, 3) robustness to visual
disturbances, 4) robustness to history length, and 5) the effect
of joint video-action modeling.
Action Prediction Accuracy (Simulation Tasks): In Table I,
we compare UVA with baseline methods in both single-task

===== PAGE 7 =====
and multi-task settings. We use the same random seed for our
method and baselines to ensure a fair comparison.
Simulation Single-Task: Our method is able to match the
performance of the state-of-the-art model DP-C and signifi-
cantly outperform other video-based methods such as UniPi
and vision-language-action model OpenVLA.
Simulation Multi-Task: Our method is particularly strong
in the multi-task setting. Specifically, UVA surpasses the
best baseline by 20% on the PushT-M task and by 5%
on the Libero10 benchmark. This result demonstrates that
UVA model is able to better learn and leverage the general
dynamics that are shared across tasks and, therefore, improve
overall performance in the multi-task setting.
Notably, π0 (3.3B) and π0-FAST (3.0B) are large models
fine-tuned from pretrained checkpoints using the entire Libero
dataset, while UVA is smaller (0.5B) and trained only on
Libero10. Moreover, π0 and π0-FAST use third-person and
wrist-view images plus robot proprioception, while UVA relies
only on third-person images. Despite its smaller size, limited
input, and no external data, UVA outperforms π0 and π0-
FAST.
Action Prediction Accuracy (Real-World Tasks): Table II
shows the results of real-world tasks. We ensure a fair compar-
ison by keeping the initial placement of objects and grippers
identical across different methods for each test rollout.
Real-World Single-Task: First, we evaluate the policy perfor-
mance in a single-task setting. This evaluation aims to compare
our method with a strong baseline in prior works by replicating
a similar evaluation setup. Overall, UVA performs comparable
with DP-UMI, which is optimized with this particular training
dataset. We noticed that the dataset contains extensive recov-
ery data from the moments of failure to correct the policy.
This data is particularly useful for models without history
dependence, like DP-UMI, which can recover from the new
observations included in the recovery data. In contrast, our
model uses a longer history, which is advantageous for tasks
requiring longer memory. However, in this case, the collected
failure recovery data is less impactful for our model, as its
longer memory window prioritizes learning from extended
temporal patterns. While we could shorten our model’s history
window, we maintain a consistent design across all tasks rather
than tailoring it to this specific task and training data.
Real-World Multi-Task: We train a single model using our
method and evaluate it on three tasks individually. DP-UMI is
trained and tested in the same manner for a fair comparison.
For each task, we test the methods on 20 different cases,
as shown in Figure 4. Our approach demonstrates superior
performance in the multi-task setting, achieving a 15% higher
success rate on the Cup task and a 40% higher success rate
on the Mouse task compared to DP-UMI.
In general, our method can successfully complete the task
with distractor objects or changing backgrounds but fails when
the background color is the same as the objects. Its visual
understanding could be enhanced by training on additional
video data without action labels. DP-UMI performs well on
BgColor
GoalColor
BgObject
Fig. 5: Visual Disturbances on PushT. Tasks are performed under
altered visual conditions, including changes in background color,
distracting background objects, and goal color.
Normal ↑BgColor ↑BgObject ↑GoalColor ↑
DP-C [10]
0.91
0.12
0.21
0.17
DP-T [10]
0.78
0.22
0.17
0.28
OpenVLA [25]
0.35
0.17
0.13
0.32
UniPi [14]
0.42
0.31
0.36
0.40
UVA
0.98
0.35
0.31
0.64
TABLE III: Visual Generalization Results on PushT with Vi-
sual Disturbances. Our method and UniPi, both video generation
models, have higher success rates compared to other policy learning
approaches.
the towel task but shows less stability when handling pick-
and-place cups and grabbing the mouse. However, it performs
well across different backgrounds due to its use of a pre-
trained vision encoder. When the gripper color is changed to
an unseen green, the performance of both methods slightly
decreases compared to the orange gripper used for training.
However, both UVA and DP-UMI show good generalization
to the unseen gripper. Please refer to our website for details.
Inference Speed: Speed is evaluated based on a single action
trajectory inference. All methods, except OpenVLA, infer 16
action steps per trajectory with 8 executed steps. OpenVLA
infers one action at a time, requiring 8 runs to match the
inference time for 8 executed actions. UniPi generates raw
pixel videos, resulting in significantly slower inference.
Our method achieves faster inference speeds by performing
diffusion iterations only on the lightweight action head, rather
than the entire network as DP-C and DP-T. Thanks to the
decoupled design, video generation can be skipped during
policy inference, further improving efficiency. For simulation
tasks, we use 100 denoise steps for action prediction. For DP-
C and DP-T, we follow their original implementations and also
perform denoising over 100 steps. With the same number of
diffusion steps (Table I), our method achieves faster inference
compared to DP-C and DP-T. Both π0 and π0-FAST achieve
faster inference speed than other methods.
For real-world tasks (Table II), both UVA and DP-UMI use
16 denoising steps for real-time manipulation. We found that
the UVA Attention module in the Transformer accounts for
half of the inference time, making UVA slightly slower than
DP-UMI. With future improvements, such as replacing the
Attention with Flash Attention, our model could achieve faster
speeds. We note that, although DP-UMI uses a pretrained

===== PAGE 8 =====
1 2
4
8
16
History Proprioception Length
0
0.5
1
Success Rate
Ours
DP-C
Fig. 6: Robustness to History Length on PushT-M. Typical policy
learning frameworks such as DP-C [10] often experience performance
drops with increased history length due to overfitting, while our
model maintains robust performance.
ViT encoder, its model size (171.27M parameters) is smaller
than DP-C (262.69M parameters). This explains why DP-C is
slower than UVA in Table I and DP-UMI is faster in Table II.
Overall, UVA achieves a good balance between speed and
performance across diverse settings.
Robustness to Visual Disturbances: We have shown that
UVA is robust to visual disturbances in the real-world multi-
task setting in Figure 4. All tests are unseen during training,
and even with more challenging distractor objects and back-
grounds, UVA achieves higher success rates than DP-UMI.
To more rigorously evaluate this visual generalization ca-
pability, we perform a systematic evaluation in simulation by
procedurally altering visual conditions in the PushT environ-
ment. The modifications include changes to the background
color, the addition of object distractor, and variations in goal
color, as shown in Figure 5. The evaluation was conducted
on scenarios outside the training distribution, as the model
was trained only in the standard environment in Figure 3. The
results show that video generation methods, such as UniPi
and UVA, exhibit superior performance in handling visual
disturbances. For example, with changes in goal color, UniPi
achieves a success rate of 40%, UVA achieves 64%, while
OpenVLA only reaches 32%.
Robustness to History Length: Prior policy learning meth-
ods, such as DP-C, often experience performance degradation
as the history length increases as shown in Figure 6 evaluated
on the PushT-M task. In contrast, UVA can effectively adapt to
longer history inputs. By jointly predicting video and action,
our model sustains robust performance even as the history
length grows. This highlights the better potential of UVA for
tasks that require reasoning over extended temporal contexts.
Effect of Joint Video-Action Modeling: We evaluate this by
comparing UVA with a baseline (UVA-action) that removes
the video generation part. As shown in Table I, this modifi-
cation led to reduced performance compared to the complete
framework, highlighting the critical role of video generation
in improving policy learning.
VI. UVA AS A VIDEO GENERATOR
UVA can function as a video generation model by bypassing
the action diffusion head during inference. We compare UVA
Libero10 ↓CupArrange ↓
UniPi [14]
56.55
71.37
UVA(1 step)
89.36
51.34
UVA(8 steps)
51.10
29.72
TABLE IV: Video Generation Results. Our method outperforms
UniPi in both simulated (Libero10) and real-world (Cup Arrange-
ment) environments. The masked autoencoder training enables au-
toregressive video generation, with 8 steps performing better than a
single step. FVD [42] results are reported.
with UniPi on video generation results across two datasets:
Libero10 and Cup Arrangement, in Table IV. Performance is
evaluated by computing the Fr´echet Video Distance (FVD)
[42] for 500 videos generated by each method. FVD is a
metric for assessing video quality by evaluating visual fidelity
and temporal coherence. It compares statistical properties of
feature representations from real and generated videos, using
a pre-trained Inflated 3D ConvNet [7]. Lower FVD scores
indicate greater similarity.
The masked autoencoder training in our method (§III-B)
facilitates video generation in an autoregressive manner, where
visual tokens are generated across all video frames in parallel
during the first stage. In the subsequent stage, the next set of
tokens is predicted sequentially, conditioned on the previously
generated tokens. This iterative token prediction process con-
tinues until the entire video is generated. See Supplementary
§X-A for details. In Table IV, we show that even with a
1-step process, our method outperforms UniPi on the more
challenging Cup Arrangement task, while using 8 steps further
improves performance.
Figure 7 shows the generated videos. Conditioned on the
history observations, UVA can predict future observations that
closely match the ground truth. Even with a single autore-
gressive step, it can generate realistic video frames, and with
additional steps, the details become more refined. In contrast,
UniPi occasionally produces blurry images, such as the Cup
Arrangement, or mismatched images, as seen in the Towel
Folding task and the Libero10 task (left). Additionally, UniPi
may fail to generate some objects entirely, as demonstrated in
the Libero10 task (the second moka pot in the right figure).
We believe that with more computational resources and larger
video generation models, both UVA and UniPi could achieve
further improvements. However, given similar computational
resources, UVA consistently outperforms UniPi.
VII. UVA AS A FORWARD DYNAMICS MODEL
Our model can perform forward dynamics predictions
Ot+1 = fforward(Ot, At). To evaluate its effectiveness, we use
it to guide the behavior of a pretrained policy model, such
as the DP-C. We evaluate this approach in a block-pushing
environment, where the model is trained to push one block
to a specified square and another block to a second square,
each randomly assigned. During testing, we aim to control
the policy to complete specific tasks, such as pushing the red
block to the red square (R-R) or the red block to the green

===== PAGE 9 =====
Future Observation Prediction
Input
Condition 
Future Observation Prediction
Input
Condition 
UVA
8 Steps
GT
UniPi
UVA
8 Steps
UVA
8 Steps
UniPi
“Cup 
arrangement” 
“Cup 
arrangement” 
“Towel fold”
“Towel fold”
“Put both 
moka pots on 
the stove” 
“Put both the 
cream cheese 
box and the 
butter in the 
basket”
Libero 10
Libero 10
GT
UniPi
GT
GT
UniPi
UniPi
GT
GT
UniPi
UVA
8 Steps
UVA
8 Steps
UVA
8 Steps
UVA
1 Step
UVA
1 Step
UVA
1 Step
UVA
1 Step
UVA
1 Step
UVA
1 Step
Fig. 7: Video Generation Results on Validation Set. UVA generates high-quality videos that closely match the ground truth, with 8
autoregressive steps further enhancing detail compared to a single autoregressive step. In contrast, UniPi occasionally produces blurry (Cup
arrangement) or mismatched images (Towel fold and Libero10 left) and may fail to generate some objects (Libero10 right, the second moka
pot). With the similar computational resources, UVA consistently outperforms UniPi.
square (R-G). The evaluation considers four distinct settings,
as illustrated in Figure 8. Each setting is tested 10 times with
varying initial positions of the objects and the robot. Notably,
a perfect policy model in this setup would achieve a maximum
average success rate of 50%, since training only requires one
block to be pushed to any square, while testing specifies exact
target assignments for each block.
At each step, we sample 100 trajectories of 16 future
actions using DP-C. The sampled actions, along with historical
observations, are input into our model, which predicts future
observations by functioning as a forward dynamics model. For
each trajectory, we calculate a reward based on the predicted
observations, selecting the trajectory with the highest reward.
The reward is computed as the distance between the blocks and
their target squares, which are identified from the predicted

===== PAGE 10 =====
Initial Observation
Red-Green
Red-Red
Green-Red
Green-Green
Fig. 8: Forward Dynamics Model on Block Pushing Task. During
training, the robot pushes two blocks randomly to any target. During
testing, the generated future image from UVA is used to select the
proper action that moves a specific object to a specific target.
R-R ↑R-G ↑G-R ↑G-G ↑Avg. ↑
DP-C
0.20
0.50
0.60
0.20
0.38
UVA
0.80
0.70
0.50
0.40
0.60
GT-Dynamics
0.80
0.80
0.70
0.70
0.75
TABLE V: Success Rate on Block Pushing. Our model functions as
a forward dynamics model to guide the behavior of pretrained policy
models, such as the DP-C [10]. DP-C alone achieves an 38% success
rate, while incorporating our model to generate future observations
for trajectory selection increases the success rate to 60%. Using a
ground-truth simulator provides an upper bound success rate of 75%.
frames. We then execute the first 6 steps of the selected
trajectory and resample new trajectories until the task is
completed or the episode ends. DP-C can complete the tasks
with a success rate of 38% in Table V. By leveraging our
model to guide the policy, the success rate increases to 60%.
For comparison, we evaluate the performance of using a
ground-truth simulator to render the sampled trajectories and
select the best ones. Even with the ground-truth simulator,
the success rate is limited to 75% due to suboptimal sampled
trajectories and errors in object detection. While our model
performs worse than the simulator, it still significantly en-
hances performance and guides the pretrained policy models
to complete required tasks.
VIII. UVA AS A INVERSE DYNAMIC MODEL
In this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed
method in an inverse dynamics setting, where actions are
inferred as At = finverse(Ot, Ot+1) using UMI data. For the
UMI Cup Arrangement data, the robot’s actions are naturally
aligned with camera movements, enabling straightforward
evaluation of action prediction accuracy using the ground truth
camera poses obtained from motion capture (Mocap). Notably,
our model had never encountered this test data during training.
Baselines: As a comparison, we evaluate the actions (i.e.,
camera pose) generated by the inverse dynamics model used in
UniPi [14] and a well-engineered SLAM system used in UMI
[6], where the SLAM system requires an additional mapping.
The UMI actions in the training data are derived from SLAM.
Results: For the actions predicted by each method, we com-
pute the L2 distance to the ground truth actions from Mocap,
as shown in Table VI. The UniPi inverse dynamics model pre-
dicts actions from two consecutive images, which may lead to
discontinuities in the predicted actions over time. In contrast,
our method predicts 16 actions simultaneously, resulting in
Position ↓
Rotation ↓
UniPi Inverse Dynamics
1.92 cm
2.21°
UVA
0.75 cm
1.11°
Visual Inertial SLAM
0.41 cm
0.30°
TABLE VI: Inverse Dynamics. L2 distances between predicted
actions and ground truth actions from Mocap. The table compares
positions and rotation results of UVA, the UniPi inverse dynamics
model, and a well-engineered SLAM system [6]. UVA outperforms
UniPi inverse dynamics model, while SLAM achieves the best
accuracy but is more complex to implement.
more consistent and temporally coherent predictions. The ac-
tion errors produced by SLAM were 0.41 cm for position and
0.30 degrees for rotation. While UVA exhibited slightly higher
errors than SLAM, it still demonstrated strong performance
with position errors under 1 cm and rotation errors around 1
degree. These results highlight the generalization capability of
UVA for action prediction, even on unseen data, and suggest
that it could serve as a viable alternative to SLAM, which is
difficult to calibrate and suffers from a high failure rate.
IX. DISCUSSION
Summary: We propose a unified video-action model that
jointly models and separately decodes video and actions. This
design enables us to fully leverage video data as additional
supervision, resulting in stronger performance and fast action
prediction by skipping video decoding during inference. The
framework inherently supports masking training, allowing it
to fulfill various robotics functions, including acting as a
policy, video model, forward and inverse dynamics model,
and a combined policy and planner. By fully utilizing video
and action data in diverse configurations, our model reduces
overfitting to specific tasks, outperforms previous methods,
and demonstrates versatility for multi-purpose applications.
Limitation and Future Work: One limitation of our frame-
work is that it does not currently leverage large amounts of
actionless video data, which could provide valuable additional
supervision. As a result, our method occasionally achieves
only comparable performance to the DP-UMI on real-world
tasks. We believe that pretraining the model on web-scale
video datasets could significantly enhance its generalization
capabilities, and we leave this exploration for future work.
Furthermore, our model can be naturally extended to pre-
dict modalities beyond video and action, such as sound and
force, by incorporating additional diffusion heads, offering a
more comprehensive and versatile framework. This remains a
promising direction for future research.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We would like to thank Huy Ha for his valuable advice on
video recording and website design. We also thank Amber Xie,
Austin Patel, Jennifer Grannen, Vincent de Bakker, John So,
Max Du, and Vidhi Jain for their important feedbacks on the
paper draft. We are grateful to Mengda Xu, Suneel Belkhale,
Xiaomeng Xu, Fanqi Lin, Lirui Wang, and Tianhong Li for

===== PAGE 11 =====
helpful discussions. We would like to express our gratitude to
Chi Cheng, Zhenjia Xu, Chuer Pan, Zeyi Liu, Huy Ha, Fanqi
Lin, Yingdong Hu, and Zhaxizhuoma for their contributions
to the shared UMI dataset. Finally, we want to thank everyone
who contributed their computing resources to help us train the
models.
This work was supported in part by the Toyota Re-
search Institute, NSF Award #1941722, #2143601, #2037101,
#2132519, ONR Project #N00014-22-1-2293 and the DARPA
TIMAT project. The views and conclusions contained herein
are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as
necessarily representing the official policies, either expressed
or implied, of the sponsors.
REFERENCES
[1] Dosovitskiy Alexey. An Image Is Worth 16x16 Words:
Transformers for Image Recognition at Scale.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2010.11929, 2020.
[2] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Es-
mail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy
Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al. π0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control,
2024. URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2410.24164.
[3] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel
Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam
Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al.
Stable Video Diffusion: Scaling Latent Video Dif-
fusion Models to Large Datasets.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.15127, 2023.
[4] Tim Brooks, Bill Peebles, Connor Holmes, Will DePue,
Yufei Guo, Li Jing, David Schnurr, Joe Taylor, Troy
Luhman, Eric Luhman, et al. Video Generation Models
as World Simulators, 2024.
[5] Jake Bruce, Michael D Dennis, Ashley Edwards, Jack
Parker-Holder, Yuge Shi, Edward Hughes, Matthew Lai,
Aditi Mavalankar, Richie Steigerwald, Chris Apps, et al.
Genie: Generative interactive environments. In Forty-first
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[6] Carlos
Campos,
Richard
Elvira,
Juan
J
G´omez
Rodr´ıguez, Jos´e MM Montiel, and Juan D Tard´os.
Orb-slam3: An accurate open-source library for visual,
visual–inertial, and multimap slam. IEEE Transactions
on Robotics, 37(6):1874–1890, 2021.
[7] Joao Carreira and Andrew Zisserman. Quo Vadis, Action
Recognition? A New Model and the Kinetics Dataset. In
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 6299–6308, 2017.
[8] Huiwen Chang, Han Zhang, Lu Jiang, Ce Liu, and
William T Freeman.
MaskGIT: Masked Generative
Image Transformer.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 11315–11325, 2022.
[9] Haoxuan Che, Xuanhua He, Quande Liu, Cheng Jin, and
Hao Chen.
Gamegen-x: Interactive open-world game
video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00769,
2024.
[10] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau,
Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and Shuran
Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via
action diffusion. The International Journal of Robotics
Research, page 02783649241273668, 2023.
[11] Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Chuer Pan, Eric Cousineau,
Benjamin Burchfiel, Siyuan Feng, Russ Tedrake, and
Shuran Song. Universal Manipulation Interface: In-the-
Wild Robot Teaching Without In-the-Wild Robots. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2402.10329, 2024.
[12] Jaden Clark, Suvir Mirchandani, Dorsa Sadigh, and
Suneel Belkhale. Action-free reasoning for policy gen-
eralization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.03729, 2025.
[13] Haoge Deng, Ting Pan, Haiwen Diao, Zhengxiong Luo,
Yufeng Cui, Huchuan Lu, Shiguang Shan, Yonggang
Qi, and Xinlong Wang.
Autoregressive Video Gen-
eration Without Vector Quantization.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.14169, 2024.
[14] Yilun Du, Sherry Yang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Ofir
Nachum, Josh Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter
Abbeel. Learning universal policies via text-guided video
generation. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36, 2024.
[15] Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach, and Bjorn Ommer. Tam-
ing Transformers for High-Resolution Image Synthe-
sis.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 12873–
12883, 2021.
[16] Pete Florence, Corey Lynch, Andy Zeng, Oscar Ramirez,
Ayzaan Wahid, Laura Downs, Adrian Wong, Johnny
Lee, Igor Mordatch, and Jonathan Tompson.
Implicit
Behavioral Cloning.
Conference on Robot Learning
(CoRL), November 2021.
[17] Kaifeng Gao, Jiaxin Shi, Hanwang Zhang, Chunping
Wang, and Jun Xiao. ViD-GPT: Introducing GPT-Style
Autoregressive Generation in Video Diffusion Models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10981, 2024.
[18] Rohit Girdhar, Mannat Singh, Andrew Brown, Quentin
Duval, Samaneh Azadi, Sai Saketh Rambhatla, Akbar
Shah, Xi Yin, Devi Parikh, and Ishan Misra. Emu Video:
Factorizing Text-to-Video Generation by Explicit Image
Conditioning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10709, 2023.
[19] Yanjiang Guo, Yucheng Hu, Jianke Zhang, Yen-Jen
Wang, Xiaoyu Chen, Chaochao Lu, and Jianyu Chen.
Prediction with action: Visual policy learning via joint
denoising process. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Confer-
ence on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[20] Kaiming He, Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, Yanghao Li,
Piotr Doll´ar, and Ross Girshick. Masked Autoencoders
Are Scalable Vision Learners.
In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pages 16000–16009, 2022.
[21] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising
Diffusion Probabilistic Models.
Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
[22] Jonathan Ho, William Chan, Chitwan Saharia, Jay

===== PAGE 12 =====
Whang, Ruiqi Gao, Alexey Gritsenko, Diederik P
Kingma, Ben Poole, Mohammad Norouzi, David J
Fleet, et al.
Imagen Video: High Definition Video
Generation with Diffusion Models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.02303, 2022.
[23] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William
Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video
Diffusion Models.
Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:8633–8646, 2022.
[24] Yucheng Hu, Yanjiang Guo, Pengchao Wang, Xiaoyu
Chen, Yen-Jen Wang, Jianke Zhang, Koushil Sreenath,
Chaochao Lu, and Jianyu Chen. Video Prediction Policy:
A Generalist Robot Policy with Predictive Visual Repre-
sentations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14803, 2024.
[25] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted
Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael Rafailov,
Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Open-
VLA: An Open-Source Vision-Language-Action Model.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
[26] Po-Chen Ko, Jiayuan Mao, Yilun Du, Shao-Hua Sun, and
Joshua B Tenenbaum. Learning to act from actionless
videos through dense correspondences.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.08576, 2023.
[27] Tianhong Li, Yonglong Tian, He Li, Mingyang Deng, and
Kaiming He. Autoregressive Image Generation Without
Vector Quantization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11838,
2024.
[28] Junbang Liang, Ruoshi Liu, Ege Ozguroglu, Sruthi Sud-
hakar, Achal Dave, Pavel Tokmakov, Shuran Song, and
Carl Vondrick. Dreamitate: Real-World Visuomotor Pol-
icy Learning via Video Generation. CoRL, 2024.
[29] Fanqi Lin, Yingdong Hu, Pingyue Sheng, Chuan Wen,
Jiacheng You, and Yang Gao. Data scaling laws in im-
itation learning for robotic manipulation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.18647, 2024.
[30] Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng, Qiang
Liu, Yuke Zhu, and Peter Stone. Libero: Benchmarking
Knowledge Transfer for Lifelong Robot Learning. Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36,
2024.
[31] Fangchen Liu, Hao Liu, Aditya Grover, and Pieter
Abbeel. Masked Autoencoding for Scalable and General-
izable Decision Making. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 35:12608–12618, 2022.
[32] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei,
Silvio Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Mart´ın-Mart´ın.
What Matters in Learning from Offline Human Demon-
strations for Robot Manipulation.
In arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.03298, 2021.
[33] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al.
Learning Transferable Visual Models from Natural Lan-
guage Supervision.
In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 8748–8763, 2021.
[34] Ilija Radosavovic, Baifeng Shi, Letian Fu, Ken Goldberg,
Trevor Darrell, and Jitendra Malik.
Robot Learning
with Sensorimotor Pre-Training. In Conference on Robot
Learning, pages 683–693, 2023.
[35] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer. High-Resolution Image
Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models, 2021.
[36] Abhishek Sharma, Adams Yu, Ali Razavi, Andeep Toor,
Andrew Pierson, Ankush Gupta, Austin Waters, A¨aron
van den Oord, Daniel Tanis, Dumitru Erhan, Eric Lau,
Eleni Shaw, Gabe Barth-Maron, Greg Shaw, Han Zhang,
Henna Nandwani, Hernan Moraldo, Hyunjik Kim, Irina
Blok, Jakob Bauer, Jeff Donahue, Junyoung Chung, Kory
Mathewson, Kurtis David, Lasse Espeholt, Marc van
Zee, Matt McGill, Medhini Narasimhan, Miaosen Wang,
Mikołaj Bi´nkowski, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Moham-
mad Taghi Saffar, Nando de Freitas, Nick Pezzotti,
Pieter-Jan Kindermans, Poorva Rane, Rachel Hornung,
Robert Riachi, Ruben Villegas, Rui Qian, Sander Diele-
man, Serena Zhang, Serkan Cabi, Shixin Luo, Shlomi
Fruchter, Signe Nørly, Srivatsan Srinivasan, Tobias Pfaff,
Tom Hume, Vikas Verma, Weizhe Hua, William Zhu,
Xinchen Yan, Xinyu Wang, Yelin Kim, Yuqing Du, and
Yutian Chen. Veo. 2024.
[37] Jascha
Sohl-Dickstein,
Eric
Weiss,
Niru
Maheswaranathan,
and
Surya
Ganguli.
Deep
Unsupervised
Learning
Using
Nonequilibrium
Thermodynamics.
In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 2256–2265, 2015.
[38] Yang Song and Prafulla Dhariwal.
Improved Tech-
niques for Training Consistency Models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.14189, 2023.
[39] Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma,
Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and Ben Poole. Score-
Based Generative Modeling Through Stochastic Differ-
ential Equations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.13456, 2020.
[40] Yang Song, Prafulla Dhariwal, Mark Chen, and Ilya
Sutskever.
Consistency Models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.01469, 2023.
[41] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert,
Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov,
Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al.
Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
[42] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Karol Ku-
rach, Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Syl-
vain Gelly.
Towards Accurate Generative Models of
Video: A New Metric & Challenges.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.01717, 2018.
[43] Dani Valevski, Yaniv Leviathan, Moab Arar, and Shlomi
Fruchter. Diffusion models are real-time game engines.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.14837, 2024.
[44] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Ł ukasz Kaiser,
and Illia Polosukhin. Attention Is All You Need. Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2017.

===== PAGE 13 =====
[45] Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Pieter-Jan
Kindermans, Hernan Moraldo, Han Zhang, Moham-
mad Taghi Saffar, Santiago Castro, Julius Kunze, and
Dumitru Erhan. Phenaki: Variable Length Video Gen-
eration from Open Domain Textual Descriptions.
In
International Conference on Learning Representations,
2022.
[46] Dirk Weissenborn, Oscar T¨ackstr¨om, and Jakob Uszkor-
eit. Scaling Autoregressive Video Models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.02634, 2019.
[47] Wenming Weng, Ruoyu Feng, Yanhui Wang, Qi Dai,
Chunyu Wang, Dacheng Yin, Zhiyuan Zhao, Kai Qiu,
Jianmin Bao, Yuhui Yuan, et al. ART-V: Auto-Regressive
Text-to-Video Generation with Diffusion Models.
In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 7395–7405, 2024.
[48] Philipp Wu, Arjun Majumdar, Kevin Stone, Yixin Lin,
Igor Mordatch, Pieter Abbeel, and Aravind Rajeswaran.
Masked Trajectory Models for Prediction, Representa-
tion, and Control. In International Conference on Ma-
chine Learning, pages 37607–37623, 2023.
[49] Mengda Xu, Zhenjia Xu, Yinghao Xu, Cheng Chi, Gor-
don Wetzstein, Manuela Veloso, and Shuran Song. Flow
as the cross-domain manipulation interface. CoRL, 2024.
[50] Wilson Yan, Yunzhi Zhang, Pieter Abbeel, and Aravind
Srinivas. VideoGPT: Video Generation Using VQ-VAE
and Transformers.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.10157,
2021.
[51] Tony Z Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation with
low-cost hardware.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705,
2023.

===== PAGE 14 =====
X. SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS
In this section, we first introduce the autoregressive video
generation process in §X-A and then show more details of
the simulation benchmarks (§X-B) and real-world benchmarks
(§X-C) we used for evaluation. We finally report the inference
speed details in §X-D.
A. Autogregressive Video Generation
Our autoregressive video generation is based on the methods
from [8] and [27], originally designed for image generation,
which we have extended to video generation. In [8], images are
first converted into discrete visual codes using VQGAN [15].
During training, a subset of these visual codes is randomly
masked and the model is trained to reconstruct them. During
inference, the entire image is generated from an empty mask.
This masked training approach enables the model to generate
images autoregressively. The number of autoregressive steps
can be adjusted during inference, with more steps leading
to improved performance, as demonstrated in their paper.
However, the visual discretization in VQGAN and training
with discrete visual codes often leads to information loss,
resulting in lower-quality images. Li et al. [27] address this
limitation by using continuous latent representations instead of
discrete code for image tokens. Their approach models each
visual token’s probability using a diffusion model, eliminating
the need for vector quantization. This method has shown
improved performance over previous approaches.
Our method is similar to [27] in that it predicts continuous
latent representations. These representations are then used
as conditions of the diffusion heads to decode actions and
video observations. The autoregressive generation process is
shown in Figure 9. If the autoregressive step is set to 1,
the entire video is generated in a single pass. Otherwise,
with a predefined number of steps, the method generates the
video autoregressively, completing the process in the specified
number of steps.
Our model builds on the pretrained model (MAR-B) re-
leased by [27] but has undergone substantial modifications for
the joint video and action modeling. Please check out our code
for details.
B. Simulation Benchmarks
Single-Task Evaluation: For this setting, different policies are
trained for different tasks.
• PushT [10, 16]: requires the agent to push the gray “T”
to align it with the target “T” at the center of the scene.
The average success rate over 50 rollouts is reported in
the main paper.
• Toolhang [32]: requires a robot to insert a hook into
a base and then hang a wrench. It is one of the most
challenging tasks in RoboMimic. We evaluate the average
success rate over 50 environments with different random
seeds.
Multi-Task Evaluation: In multi-task evaluation, we train one
policy for multiple task goals defined by image or text.
First 
Step
Second 
Step
Final 
Step
…
Ot+1
Ot+h
Empty 
Mask
Ot+2
…
Fig. 9: Autoregressive Video Generation. Our method generates
a video starting from an empty mask. Given a specified number of
generation steps, the model produces a set of tokens at each autore-
gressive step, progressively constructing the video. If the generation
step is set to 1, the entire video is generated in a single pass.
• PushT-M: We extend the PushT task to include varying
target “T” positions. This setting adds additional uncer-
tainty and presents a greater challenge, requiring the agent
to dynamically plan its trajectory and adapt to diverse
spatial configurations. We reported the average reward
on 50 environments with different random seeds.
• Libero10 [30]: is the most challenging task in the Libero
benchmark due to its long-horizon requirements. This set
comprises 10 tasks, each accompanied by a language goal
description, such as “put the red mug on the left plate and
open the bottom drawer of the cabinet”. We use the same
language encoder, e.g., CLIP, for all methods. Objects are
initialized in varying locations within the scene. Each task
is evaluated over 10 runs with different random seeds, and
we report the average reward across all 10 tasks, resulting
in a total of 500 test episodes.
C. Real-world Benchmarks
Training Data: We assess real-world performance using two
publicly available benchmarks introduced by [11] and [29].
Both benchmarks collect data using the handheld UMI [11]
device. Thanks to the UMI’s design, these datasets can be
directly utilized to train various models and evaluate them on
our robotic setup, which consists of a single ARX X5 robotic
arm. We used three tasks for training:
• Cup Arrangement [11]: requires the robot to first rotate
the cup with the handle oriented to the left of the robot,
then pick up an espresso cup and place it onto a saucer.
Success is achieved when the cup is properly placed on

===== PAGE 15 =====
the saucer and the handle lies within ±15◦of the exact
left alignment.
• Towel Folding [29]: requires the robot to grasp the left
edge of the towel and move it to the right, folding it in
half.
• Mouse Arrangement [29]: requires the robot to pick up
the mouse and place it on the mouse pad.
Single-Task Evaluation: We train a single-task policy on the
Cup dataset and directly compare it to the DP-UMI model
provided by the authors [11]. Both methods are trained using
the same dataset. The cup and saucer are initially placed in
varying positions and orientations. Across 20 test rollouts, the
robot needs to rotate the cup before placing it on the saucer
in 85% of the cases. Additionally, we include challenging
scenarios where the cup is positioned at the boundary of the
robot arm’s reach. We evaluate each method across 20 rollouts
with different initial configurations. The average success rate
is reported in the main paper.
Multi-Task Evaluation: We train one model with all three
tasks and then evaluate the policy performance on each task
independently. The three public datasets contain a total of
6,764 episodes. We randomly selected 500 episodes from
each dataset and combined them into a dataset with 1500
episodes to train both our model and DP-UMI [11]. To ensure
a wide testing distribution, we evaluate 20 different scenarios,
including six initial configurations of objects and the robot, six
different distractor objects, five distinct backgrounds, and an
unseen gripper type (training is conducted with only orange
and purple grippers, while testing includes a green gripper).
D. Inference Speed Measurement and Decomposition
For the simulation results in Table I, we measure the
inference speed using a server with NVIDIA L40 GPUs for
all of the models. For the real-world results in Table II, we
measure the inference speed on an NVIDIA RTX 3080 GPU
to match real-world deployment scenarios.
We also decompose the inference time of each component
in our model under the real-world deployment scenario:
The pretrained VAE image encoder requires 40ms, while the
transformer module takes approximately 40ms, which can be
reduced to 30ms using flash attention. The action prediction
head takes 15ms with 16 diffusion steps and 93ms with 100
diffusion steps. In our policy learning experiment in Table II,
we chose 16 diffusion steps. However, using 100 diffusion
steps results in smoother action predictions and a higher
success rate, though at the cost of slower performance. In total,
UVA requires 95ms to predict an action trajectory with 16
actions when using 16 diffusion steps, and 173ms when using
100 diffusion steps. Incorporating flash attention can reduce
10ms for both.
We also reported the inference speed for video generation,
even though video generation was skipped during policy
inference. Video generation involves a higher latent dimen-
sionality and requires more denoising steps. Performing 16
video diffusion steps takes 100ms, while 100 steps take 625ms.
Modules / Tasks
Inference time (ms) ↓
VAE Image Encoder
40
Transformer (Attention)
40
Transformer (Flash Attention)
30
Action Diffusion (16 steps)
15
Action Diffusion (100 steps)
93
Rest of the model
< 1
Video Diffusion (16 steps)
100
Video Diffusion (100 steps)
625
UVA (16 steps)
95
UVA (16 steps Flash Attention)
85
UVA (100 steps)
173
UVA (100 steps Flash Attention)
163
Policy+Planner (16 steps)
195
Policy+Planner (100 steps)
798
TABLE VII: Inference Time Decomposition. We measure the
inference time for each module and the total runtime of UVA as
a policy model, using 16 policy steps and 100 diffusion steps.
Therefore, skipping video generation significantly speeds up
policy inference.
E. Utilize Action-Free Video
UVA can leverage action-free video data by (1) pretraining
on video generation tasks and (2) co-training with video-action
data to learn a joint latent representation. We conducted an
experiment where UVA is first pretrained for video generation
using the Human Video dataset from [12], which contains
3,175 human-only videos. We then finetune UVA on the
combined Human Video and LIBERO-10 datasets using the
Masked Training strategy. With the action-free human videos,
the accuracy can be further improved as shown in Table VIII.
Model
30 test ↑
500 test ↑
UVA
0.93
0.90
UVA + Human Data
0.97
0.91
TABLE VIII: UVA with additional human data further improves
performance. Results on Libero10 across 10 tasks. In the 30-test
setting, each task is evaluated 3 times with different random seeds.
In the 500-test setting, each task is evaluated 50 times.
F. Impact of masking strategy.
In paper Figure 1, our masked pattern is based on the input-
output structure of each application. We added two additional
masking methods on PushT-M: 1) Application-dependent: The
masking follows the input-output structure of each application,
e.g., video generation uses history observations to predict
future ones. We thus randomly mask the history observations.
2) Application-independent: randomly mask the inputs, regard-
less of task semantics. The results are reported in Table IX
Policy learning and video generation are evaluated by suc-
cess rate and FVD. Forward dynamics is evaluated by FVD on
videos generated conditioned on actions. Inverse dynamics is
evaluated by L2 error. Overall, in the “application-dependent”
setting, higher mask ratios degrade overall performance. In the

===== PAGE 16 =====
Masking Strategy
Application-dependent
Application-independent
Mask Ratio
25%
50%
75%
25%
50%
75%
Policy (Success) ↑
0.84
0.84
0.74
0.86
0.87
0.84
Video Generation (FVD) ↓
127.09
161.72
166.45
181.68
200.08
262.93
Forward Dynamics (FVD) ↓
129.77
167.10
167.40
174.85
203.59
264.96
Inverse Dynamics (L2) ↓
17.54
25.98
47.79
14.14
13.55
14.10
TABLE IX: Evaluation of different masking strategies (application-dependent vs. application-independent) across various mask
ratios.
“application-independent” setting, 25% masking works best
for video generation and forward dynamics, while 50% is
optimal for policy and inverse dynamics.
