
===== PAGE 1 =====
Curating Demonstrations using Online Experience
Annie S. Chen∗, Alec M. Lessing∗, Yuejiang Liu, Chelsea Finn
Stanford University
Abstract—Many robot demonstration datasets contain heteroge-
neous demonstrations of varying quality. This heterogeneity may
benefit policy pre-training, but can hinder robot performance
when used with a final imitation learning objective. In particular,
some strategies in the data may be less reliable than others or may
be underrepresented in the data, leading to poor performance
when such strategies are sampled at test time. Moreover, such
unreliable or underrepresented strategies can be difficult even for
people to discern, and sifting through demonstration datasets is
time-consuming and costly. On the other hand, policy performance
when trained on such demonstrations can reflect the reliability of
different strategies. We thus propose for robots to self-curate based
on online robot experience (Demo-SCORE). More specifically,
we train and cross-validate a classifier to discern successful
policy roll-outs from unsuccessful ones and use the classifier
to filter heterogeneous demonstration datasets. Our experiments
in simulation and the real world show that Demo-SCORE can
effectively identify suboptimal demonstrations without manual
curation. Notably, Demo-SCORE achieves over 15-35% higher
absolute success rate in the resulting policy compared to the base
policy trained with all original demonstrations.
I. INTRODUCTION
Learning from demonstrations is a powerful technique for
acquiring a range of different robotic manipulation skills.
Although large, diverse demonstration datasets are beneficial
for pre-training, a more selective use of demonstrations may
be required to achieve optimal performance. As robot learning
datasets scale to include demonstrations from multiple operators
across increasingly complex tasks, they naturally encompass a
wide range of strategies—some of which may be challenging
for robots to replicate reliably or lack sufficient examples for
effective learning. For example, when teaching a robot to pick
up a spoon, a human operator may collect demonstrations using
a strategy that may be unreliable for the robot to imitate, like
gripping the edge of the spoon head, which may be prone to
slipping out of the robot’s grasp, as shown in Figure 1. As such,
in this paper, we study how to effectively curate demonstration
datasets to enable optimal policy performance.
Manual labeling and filtering of such data is both time-
consuming and error-prone, especially as the scale of robot
learning datasets continues to grow. Moreover, determining
which demonstrations are unreliable can be difficult, even for
human experts, as successes for most real-world tasks exist on a
spectrum of approaches with subtle variations in execution and
context dependence, potentially making it difficult to describe or
group different strategies together. For example, when grasping
objects, demonstrations might vary continuously in terms of
approach angles, contact points, and force application. Without
∗Equal contribution. Correspondence to asc8@stanford.edu. Videos of real-
world trials at https://anniesch.github.io/demo-score/.
Fig. 1: Human Demonstrations may be Unreliable. Human demon-
strations may include a wide range of strategies, not all of which
are beneficial for the robot to learn. For example, some humans may
try to complete the task by picking up the spoon by its edge or by
lifting it above the rack and dropping it, but these strategies may be
unreliable for imitation by a robot policy.
careful curation, robots may learn strategies that succeed in
specific demonstrations but are brittle under slightly different
conditions, limiting their generalization and robustness. This
motivates the need for an automated approach to selectively
curate demonstrations within a single task/dataset, allowing
robots to learn only the most reliable and effective strategies
for that task.
Our key insight is that when a policy is trained on het-
erogeneous demonstrations, its performance during rollouts
can reveal which demonstrated strategies are most reliable.
Building on this observation, we present Demo-SCORE, which
leverages online policy rollout experiences to automatically
curate reliable demonstrations. The approach begins by training
an initial policy on the full set of demonstrations. Rollouts are
generated from this policy and used to train a classifier that
approximately distinguishes successful trajectories from failed
ones, thereby learning to separate the underlying strategies
by their reliability. One challenge is that classifier may
overfit to rollouts from one policy checkpoint–to address this,
we cross-validate its performance on rollouts from another
checkpoint in the initial policy training run. By applying this
classifier to the original dataset, Demo-SCORE identifies and
discards unreliable examples. This method works because it
leverages the robot’s own experience through rollouts, allowing
it to assess the true reliability of different strategies after
policy learning. Thus, by focusing on the end results of
policy rollouts, Demo-SCORE filters demonstrations based on
practical outcomes rather than potentially misleading surface-
arXiv:2503.03707v2  [cs.RO]  22 Jul 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
level cues.
We evaluate Demo-SCORE on a set of simulated and
real-world robotic manipulation tasks with heterogeneous
demonstration mixtures that include a variety of strategies.
More specifically, our evaluation suite spans multiple tasks
in Robosuite [27] along with simulated and real-world
ALOHA [48] with different imbalanced mixtures of higher
and lower quality demonstrations, and we evaluate with
different policy classes, including both Diffusion Policy [12].
ACT [48]. Our experiments show that policies trained on
our filtered demonstrations significantly outperform the base
policies trained on all demonstrations, leading to 15-35%
higher absolute success rate. Demo-SCORE also significantly
outperforms prior approaches that also leverage rollout data,
like autonomous imitation learning, achieving almost 2x lower
failure rate. We additionally provide a detailed empirical
analysis of the design choices of our method and show that
it is robust to these and to hyperparameter choices. Our
results highlight the benefits of curating demonstration data
and show that our simple approach to automated filtering can
significantly enhance policy performance in robot learning from
demonstrations.
II. RELATED WORK
Behavior Cloning. Behavior cloning has traditionally been
formulated as supervised learning from homogeneous expert
demonstrations [2, 33, 45]. In practice, however, human
demonstrations often exhibit wide variations in strategy [42],
proficiency [3], and preference [19], especially in large-
scale datasets [7, 20, 30]. To handle such variation, recent
methods have sought to model the distribution of actions or
action chunks [5, 13, 16, 24, 26, 39, 46, 48] or decompose
demonstrations into shorter sequences corresponding to distinct
high-level strategies [6, 28, 49]. Nonetheless, not all strategies
are equally optimal: some can be inefficient, overly complex,
or brittle to perturbations, thereby hindering robust deploy-
ment [9, 18, 21, 32, 41]. Our method addresses this issue by
explicitly curating demonstration datasets.
Data Curation. Early efforts in data curation often rely on
hand-crafted heuristics, such as near-duplicate removal [23],
metadata balancing [38], and diversity expansion [15]. While
manual curation has shown promise in the development of
robot foundation models [7], it is inherently limited in its
ability to capture nuanced aspects of data quality. For example,
the commonly used heuristic of maximizing state diversity
has been shown not to always be beneficial [4]. Recent works
have instead shifted towards curating training data based on
properties derived from the learned policy. Notably, Du et al.
[14], Nasiriany et al. [31] leverage the embeddings of a small
set of high-quality demonstrations to retrieve relevant examples
from a larger candidate dataset. Hejna et al. [17] propose to
estimate the importance weights of subsets through the lens
of domain robustness [43]. However, estimating the quality of
individual demonstrations within a single task remains an open
challenge. Our work addresses this challenge by identifying
and pruning suboptimal demonstrations.
Suboptimal Demonstrations. Previous works have at-
tempted to tackle suboptimal demonstrations in two primary
ways. One line of research assumes access to annotations,
such as reward [37] or ranking [9], for all collected demon-
strations, aiming to learn an optimal policy via weighted
behavior cloning [40, 44] or offline reinforcement learning [25].
However, gathering dense annotations at scale beyond sparse
binary success detection can be tedious and expensive. As
such, another line of work seeks to learn a reward function
from a limited number of annotations (e.g., quality [44],
confidence [34], preference [11]) and subsequently estimate the
rewards of a broader unlabeled dataset. While these methods
reduce annotation expenses, they still rely on human definitions
of data quality, which does not always align with robot
capabilities or task conditions. In contrast, we leverage policy
rollouts to identify suboptimal trajectories autonomously and
only use sparse binary success/failure annotations of the data.
Prior works like autonomous imitation learning [1, 8, 29]
and reward-conditioned policies [22, 35] also leverage policy
rollouts filtered by success as additional data to improve the
policy. Compared to the these, we find in Section V that Demo-
SCORE is more effective at improving policy performance.
By grounding curation directly in the downstream task and
embodiment, our method provides a scalable, effective pathway
for filtering demonstrations.
III. PRELIMINARIES
We address a problem setting where we are given a dataset
of N successful demonstrations, Ddemo = {τ1, . . . , τN}. Each
demonstration τi = {s0, a0, s1, a1, . . . , sT , aT } consists of
a trajectory of states and actions. These demonstrations are
collected in a Markov Decision Process (MDP) characterized by
(S, A, P, r), where S and A denote the state and action spaces,
P is the transition dynamics, r is the reward function. The goal
is to learn a policy πθ(a|s) that maximizes expected cumulative
reward, E[R] = E[PT
t=0 γtr(st, at)], during deployment. We
additionally have the opportunity to collect a small amount
of experience in the environment for further offline training,
where experience is labeled with a binary indicator for success
or failure.
We assume that all of the demonstrations in Ddemo are
successful (i.e. achieve reward r = 1), or equivalently that
any unsuccessful demonstrations are thrown out. Beyond being
successful, motivated by the discussion above, we focus on
settings where the demonstrations are heterogenous and differ
in reliability and effectiveness. This diversity arises due to
variations in operator styles, environmental conditions, or task
execution strategies. As a result, some demonstrations may lead
to suboptimal behaviors if modeled indiscriminately, posing a
challenge for imitation learning methods that aim to model the
distribution of demonstrations. Our goal is to learn a maximally
successful policy, πfinal, despite varying demonstration quality.
Our problem setting is a case of the autonomous imitation
learning (Auto-IL) problem. In autonomous imitation learn-
ing [1, 8, 29], an initial policy π0 is trained, which is used
to generate rollouts. These are processed through a filtering

===== PAGE 3 =====
mechanism, often binary task success/failure, to generate a
supplementary dataset. A new policy πi is then trained or fine-
tuned using a combination of demos and newly acquired data.
The online experience is limited to far fewer trajectories than
the typical budget of reinforcement learning methods, making
it particularly practical for real robots. In the next section, we
will describe how we use this experience to identify how to
filter the demonstrations to improve performance.
IV. DEMO-SCORE DATA CURATION
In this section, we present Demo-SCORE, where we seek
to filter out unreliable demonstrations. The key empirical
observation behind Demo-SCORE is that successes and failures
in policy rollouts can reflect unreliable strategies in the training
data that may not be easily discernible from the demonstrations
themselves, which are all labeled as successful. By focusing
on the outcomes of policy rollouts, Demo-SCORE can identify
and filter out unreliable demonstrations that the robot policy
cannot replicate successfully and therefore lead to inconsistent
policy performance.
Our approach consists of the following main steps: first, we
train an initial policy on the full set of demonstrations. We
then use the policy to generate rollouts that are used to train
a data quality classifier to distinguish between successful and
failed outcomes. This classifier is subsequently applied to the
original dataset to perform filtering (which can be done at the
episode level or the chunk level), retaining only the reliable
episodes.
Our method does not require any additional human labeling
beyond the detection of success or failure during the rollout
phase. This lack of manual dense supervision makes Demo-
SCORE scalable to large, diverse demonstration datasets where
traditional human annotation would be challenging and costly.
Furthermore, grounding demo curation in policy rollouts allows
us to identify suboptimal demos that are difficult for human
annotators to recognize.
A. Initial policy and data quality classifier training
We first train an initial policy, π0,K, on the full set of given
demonstrations, Ddemo, for a total of K steps. In this step,
we prioritize learning a policy capable of modeling the full
distribution of demonstrated behaviors while avoiding mode
collapse when presented with heterogeneous demonstrations.
Recently proposed policy classes such as diffusion policy [12]
and ACT [47] have demonstrated robust performance in this
context, making them suitable choices for our base policy. This
policy is trained until convergence, so that the model learns to
replicate the different behaviors shown in the demonstrations.
After the initial training phase, we generate rollouts pro-
duced by executing the policy in the environment, which
may be rollouts obtained in the process of evaluating the
initial policy at various checkpoints. We want to use these
rollouts to train a data quality classifier that distinguishes
between successful and failed outcomes and therefore hopefully
between reliable and unreliable strategies. More formally, let
+ denote reliable demonstrations and −denote unreliable
ones. The learned classifier is expected to provide plausible
estimates of demo quality if prollout(τ|success) ≈pdemo(τ|+)
and prollout(τ|failure) ≈pdemo(τ|−), but in practice, we do
not have such rollout distributions nor quality labels +/−.
Thus, one key challenge is that the classifier may overfit to
the rollouts it is trained on, which may not perfectly match
the original demo distribution. In particular, at convergence
time, even though the policy is trained to imitate the full demo
distribution and good strategies should be much more reliable
than bad ones, the policy rollouts may still contain failures near
good strategies and successes near bad strategies. Overfitting
to a rollout distribution from one policy checkpoint could lead
to poor generalization on the demo distribution.
To address this challenge of distribution shift and potential
classifier overfitting, we leverage multiple rollout distributions
taken from different checkpoints across the initial training run
and use cross-validation. We obtain rollouts at C evenly spaced
checkpoints of the initial training run, giving {Dπ0,i}C
i=1,
each taken at checkpoint i ∗K/C. We then train C −1
classifiers, {qϕi}C−1
i=1 , on rollouts from each of the first C −1
checkpoints, and perform cross-validation with rollouts from
the last checkpoint Dπ0,C as the validation set. Intuitively, the
rollout distribution changes throughout the course of training,
typically being broader at the beginning and becoming narrower
as the policy fits the original demonstrations. We choose to
use C spaced-out checkpoints for several reasons. First, they
are spread apart enough to ensure that the rollout distributions
are distinct from each other, so a classifier that overfits to
rollouts from a checkpoint would be less likely to be chosen
through cross-validation. Second, when evaluating the initial
training run, it is common to evaluate performance at several
evenly spaced checkpoints, so these online rollouts occur little
additional online cost beyond evaluating the original training
run. Other choices of checkpoints are also effective, as we find
in our testing of variations of Demo-SCORE in Section V-D.
Furthermore, using as few as 10 rollouts per checkpoint can
be sufficient, for a total of less than 100 rollouts.
Each data quality classifier qϕi is trained to predict whether
a state from the corresponding set of rollouts Dπ0,i is from
a successful or a failed trajectory. The classifiers are trained
using a binary cross-entropy loss, where the input consists of
the proprioceptive state st, and the output is a binary label
yi ∈{0, 1} indicating the outcome of the corresponding rollout.
For a single trajectory τ = {(st, at)}T
t=1 ∈Dπ0,i with label y,
the loss at the trajectory level is defined as:
Lϕ(τ, y) = 1
T
T
X
t=1
[−y log qϕi(y | st) −(1 −y) log(1 −qϕi(y | st))] ,
where T is the number of timesteps in the trajectory τ.
The overall loss is then the average over all trajectories in
the rollout dataset Dπ0,i:
Lϕ = 1
M
X
(τj,yj)∈Dπ0,i
Lϕ(τj, yj),

===== PAGE 4 =====
Fig. 2: Illustration of Demo-SCORE. Our method self-curates demonstrations through online robot experience in four steps: (i) train a policy
on the full demonstration set; (ii) evaluate the policy by generating rollouts with different checkpoints; (iii) use these rollouts to train and
cross-validate a classifier that distinguishes between success and failure trajectories; (iv) filter out unreliable demonstrations based on the
learned classifier, retaining only ones that do not reflect policy failures for subsequent policy training.
where M is the number of rollouts in the training dataset,
Dπ0,i.
The classifiers are small MLPs (with two hidden layers
with eight hidden units). We train the classifiers with large
weight decay and dropout to prevent overfitting to the rollout
distribution, although we find in Section V-D that the classifier
is robust even without heavy regularization due to cross-
validation. The classifier checkpoint with the lowest validation
loss is chosen as the final data quality classifier, qϕ∗and is
then used in the next phase to filter the demonstrations.
B. Demonstration Filtering
In the demonstration filtering phase, we apply the learned
data quality classifier to the original dataset of demonstrations,
in the following manner: Each state st from the demonstration
is passed as input to the classifier, which returns the probability
of success. Averaged across all states in the episode, if the
probability of success exceeds a threshold, γ, the demon-
stration is kept; otherwise it is discarded. For an episode
τ = {(st, at)}T
t=1, the average success probability is
¯qϕ∗(τ) = 1
T
Ti
X
t=1
qϕ∗(y = 1 | st).
We use the average probability of success over all states in the
rollout training dataset Dπ0,i∗, corresponding to the training
set of the best classifier qϕ∗, as the threshold, e.g.
γ =
1
|Dπ0,i∗|
X
(st)∈Dπ0,i∗
qϕ∗(y = 1 | st),
and the filtered dataset is then:
Ddemo, filt = {τj | ¯qϕ∗(τj) > γ, τj ∈Ddemo}.
γ can be tuned further but we find this formulation to work
well empirically for all of our experiments in Section V. The
probability learned by the classifier of the failures should be
much lower than those of successes, which is why γ is an
effective threshold, even if the quality composition of the
dataset is imbalanced, and we find this to be the case in our
experiments.
We can then use the filtered dataset Ddemo, filt to train a new
policy, πfinal, either from scratch or by fine-tuning the initial
policy which was trained on the full demonstration dataset. We
then apply our same trained classifier on the successful rollouts
themselves, obtaining Drollouts, filt, and we can then train on the
union of Ddemo, filt and Drollouts, filt in this last stage. By filtering
out unreliable demonstrations, Demo-SCORE helps ensure
that the policy learns the most effective strategies, ultimately
improving the performance and robustness of the learned robot
behavior. Our full method is summarized in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Demo-SCORE Summary
1: Input: Ddemo, C checkpoints, M rollouts, K steps
2: π0 ←Train(Ddemo)
3: {Dπ0,i}C
i=1, ←GenerateRollouts(π0,i∗K/C, M)
4: qϕ∗←TrainClassifier, CrossValidate({Dπ0,i}C
i=1)
5: γ ←
1
|Dπ0,i∗|
P
(st)∈Dπ0,i∗qϕ∗(y = 1 | st)
6: Ddemo, filt, Drollouts, filt ←{τj | ¯qϕ∗(τj) > γ, τj ∈Ddemo ∪
Drollouts}
7: πfinal ←Use Ddemo, filt ∪Drollouts, filt to re-train & fine-tune
π
8: Return πfinal
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In this section, we aim to answer the following empirical
questions:
1) Across a range of tasks and heterogenous demonstra-
tion mixtures, does Demo-SCORE filter out unreliable
demonstrations in a manner that leads to higher policy
performance than training on all original demonstrations?
2) How does Demo-SCORE compare to prior methods that
leverage online rollouts to improve policy performance?
3) What can the composition of demonstrations filtered out
by Demo-SCORE inform us about the quality of the
original dataset?
4) How sensitive is Demo-SCORE to method design choices
and hyperparameters?

===== PAGE 5 =====
To answer the first two questions, we describe experiments
for two simulated settings and then present results from several
real-world robotic manipulation tasks with ALOHA. We then
analyze our method through ablation studies to answer the last
two questions.
A. Experimental Setup
a) General Experimental Setup: We use base learning
algorithms Diffusion Policy [12] for all experiments in Ro-
bosuite and ACT [48] for simulated and real-world ALOHA
experiments. Both of these policy classes have been shown to
fit the distribution of heterogeneous demonstrations. We im-
plement all methods on top of state-of-the-art implementations
of these policies using the original diffusion policy codebase,
original ACT codebase for real-world experiments, and the
LeRobot codebase [10] for simulated ALOHA experiments.
b) Comparisons: We evaluate Demo-SCORE along with
the following prior methods, the last two of which also
leverage online rollouts to improve policy performance: (1)
Policy trained on all original demonstrations, which we refer
to as Base Policy; (2) Training loss [36], which weights
demonstrations inversely proportional to the loss of the policy
on the demonstration data. (3) Autonomous imitation learning
(Auto-IL) [1, 8, 29], where we train the policy on all original
demonstrations and successful online rollout episodes; (4)
Return-conditioned policies (RCP) [22, 35], which trains a
policy with an additional input associated with return (here 1
if from a success trajectory, 0 for failure) of the state-action
pair on all demos and rollout data; For our main simulated
experiments, we use 100 rollouts from C = 4 checkpoints
for Demo-SCORE, and all 400 rollouts for Auto-IL and RPC
baselines. For real-world experiments, we use 20 rollouts per
checkpoint for Chocolate and Strawberry tasks and 25 for the
Jellybean, Sharpie, and Spoon tasks for C = 5 checkpoints
to train the classifier. For evaluation, we measure and report
success rate and 90% confidence intervals across 256 rollouts
in simulated experiments and 30 rollouts in real.
B. Simulated Experiments in Robosuite and ALOHA
We test Demo-SCORE on a bimanual peg insertion task
in the ALOHA [48] environment and a square peg task from
Robosuite [27], shown in Figure 3. In the peg insertion task, an
ALOHA simulated in MuJoCo picks up a peg and a socket in
each hand and inserts the peg into the socket. The observation
space for this task consists of joint positions and an overhead
RGB camera. In the square peg task, a simulated Panda arm
is tasked with picking up a large square-shaped nut with a
handle attached and inserting or dropping it on square-shaped
peg fixed to the table. Observations for this task consist of
proprioception for the robot arm and pose for the square nut.
a) Demonstration Collection: For the peg insertion task,
we collect demonstrations by scripting three policies (PegA,
PegB, PegC) and saving rollouts in which the task was
successfully completed. In demos from PegA, the grippers
pick up the peg and socket near the center of gravity of both
objects with both arms at natural positions. Without changing
the orientation of the peg and socket, the arms align the peg
and socket and then come together to insert them. In demos
from PegB and PegC, when picking up the peg and socket, the
positioning of the arms may sometimes obscure the overhead
camera’s view of the peg and socket during insertion, which
may lead to worse policy performance with this strategy.
For the square peg task, we leverage the proficient human-
collected dataset given in the benchmark, denoted Human,
collected by one human skilled at the task. Additionally, we
add demonstrations from two scripted policies: SquareA, in
which the gripper grasps the midpoint on the side of the square,
moves the nut over the peg, and then drops the nut, SquareB,
in which the gripper grasps the nut across the diagonal at the
corner of the square and then drops the nut on the peg.
Although they use different strategies, all of the demon-
strations successfully complete the task and we do not add
any artificial noise. We evaluate our method on a variety
of heterogeneous data mixtures taken from a combination
of the demonstration sources. In particular, these mixtures
include both even and strongly lopsided ratios of different
demonstration strategies, in order to represent the varied
potential heterogeneity in demonstration datasets.
b) Results: In Figure 4, we show the results of Demo-
SCORE on the simulated peg insertion and square peg tasks
for a variety of data mixtures. We find that on average over all
data mixtures in both settings, Demo-SCORE improves upon
training on all original demonstrations by 15-35% absolute
success rate. With filtering by Demo-SCORE, the policy
achieves an average success rate of over 94% on the square
peg and over 90% on the peg insertion task across all mixtures.
Policies trained with Demo-SCORE have average failure rates
that are on average over 2× lower than those of the best
prior method (Auto-IL) for the square task and 1.6 times
lower for the peg insertion task. Auto-IL is the second-best
method, achieving 88.2% average success rate on the square
task and 79.9% on the peg insertion task. It improves upon
the base policy, as it is trained with more data from successful
rollouts, but unreliable demonstrations are still present in the
dataset, which still leads to inconsistent policy performance.
The Training Loss comparison improves upon training on
all original demonstrations for the peg insertion task but not
for square peg, suggesting that unreliable strategies may not
necessarily correspond to ones that are easiest or fastest to learn.
Return-conditioned policies outperforms the base policy on
both tasks but performs significantly worse than Demo-SCORE,
suggesting that training with the return signal is not as effective
in pushing the policy away from unreliable strategies as better
curating demonstrations.
Qualitatively, Demo-SCORE filters out between 16% and
67% of demonstrations for the square peg task, depending
on the data mixture. We note Demo-SCORE is effective even
with strongly lopsided heterogeneous mixtures, such as 200
Human, 20 SquareA or 200 Human, 400 SquareA, showing
that Demo-SCORE adjusts accordingly based on the dataset
composition.

===== PAGE 6 =====
Fig. 3: Tasks for Evaluation. In simulation, we evaluate Demo-SCORE on a bimanual peg insertion task in an ALOHA environment and a
square peg task from Robosuite. In the real-world, we evaluate on four tasks with ALOHA: spoon in rack cupholder, chocolate plate transfer,
sharpie pick up, and strawberry pick up from a cluttered scene.
Fig. 4: Simulated Experiment Results. We report the success rates and 90% confidence intervals of the policy trained on the filtered
demonstrations by Demo-SCORE along with prior methods leveraging online rollouts, across 256 trials for a variety of heterogeneous
demonstration data mixtures. For example, in the square peg domain, “100 Human, 50/50 SquareA/B” indicates a demonstration dataset
with 100 trajectories from the proficient human dataset, 50 from the SquareA script, and 50 from SquareB. Across both tasks and all data
mixtures, Demo-SCORE matches or outperforms all other methods.
C. Real-world Experiments
We test Demo-SCORE on several tasks requiring precise
manipulation with a real-world ALOHA [48] environment,
shown in Figure 3: (1) Spoon, where the robot needs to pick
up a spoon and put it in the cupholder on a rack; (2) Chocolate,
where the robot needs to transfer a chocolate bar from one
plate to another; (3) Sharpie, where the robot needs to pick
up the sharpie and avoid the adjacent tape roll; (4) Strawberry,
where the robot needs to pick up a strawberry from a cluttered
breakfast platter; (5) Jellybean, where the robot must take a
cup from a dispenser, place it under the jellybean holder, add
jellybeans to the cup, and move the filled cup to the front of
the table. The base policy trained on all demonstrations for
the Jellynean task cannot complete the full task. Therefore, for
this task alone, we break the task into five subtasks and use an
aggregated subtask score — the fraction of the five subtasks
completed in a given episode — for evaluation and classifier
training supervision.
a) Demonstration Collection: We collect a total of 40 suc-
cessful demonstrations for the Spoon task, 50 for the Chocolate
and Sharpie tasks, and 120 for the Strawberry task. We aim to
reflect the diversity of demonstrations found in crowdsourced
demonstrations, including a mix of different strategies. In
particular, for each of these tasks, we collect demonstrations
picking up the object from different grasp positions and angles,
encompassing a variety of initial conditions for the objects. For
Base Policy
Demo-SCORE
Retrieved Cup
70
96
Placed Cup
50
64
Moved Cup Below Dispenser
10
44
Filled Cup
0
20
Delivered Filled Cup
0
20
Aggregated Score
27
49
Full Success
0
20
TABLE I: We report the percent success rate for each subtask in the
Jellybean task, the aggregated score (the percentage of all subtasks
completed), and the percent success rate on the full Jellybean task.
On this challenging task, Demo-SCORE is able to curate the data so
that the robot is able to even achieve success on the full task.
the Jellybean task, we use 124 crowdsourced demonstrations
and 100 expert demonstrations from Mirchandani et al. [30].
b) Results: In Figure 6, we show the results of Demo-
SCORE on four real-world ALOHA tasks. Across all four
tasks, we find that Demo-SCORE significantly improves upon
the base policy, yielding 15-40% absolute improvement in
success rate, and almost 30% on average. For the jellybean
task, in addition to the aggregated subtask score increasing
from 27 to 49 percent, the success rate on the long-horizon
full task increases from 0 to 20 percent (details found in
Table I). These results underscore the benefits of carefully
considering the quality of human-collected demonstrations–
fewer demonstrations may learn a more robust policy than

===== PAGE 7 =====
Fig. 5: Rollout and Demo distributions on real-world tasks. For the strawberry and sharpie tasks, we show the rollout distributions at
early and late checkpoints of the initial policy run, the composition of demonstrations kept by Demo-SCORE compared to the original
distribution of demonstrations, and the resulting rollout distribution after filtering. The x axis represents step number in the rollout, and the y
axis represents the first PCA component of the joint positions.
100 Human,
100 SquareA
100 Human,
50/50 SquareA/B
200 Human,
20 SquareA
200 Human,
100 SquareA
200 Human,
200 SquareA
200 Human,
400 SquareA
Average
Demo-SCORE (original)
91.8
93.8
96.1
93.4
94.5
96.5
94.4
Demo-SCORE (chunk)
90.2
91.4
94.1
96.1
95.7
93.0
93.4
Demo-SCORE (trajectory)
93.0
95.7
97.3
97.3
96.1
95.3
95.8
Demo-SCORE (plateau checkpoints)
92.6
91.0
96.9
95.3
94.9
96.1
94.5
Demo-SCORE (no reg)
94.1
91.4
92.2
92.2
96.1
95.7
93.6
Demo-SCORE (no cross-val)
93.8
89.1
87.1
84.4
81.3
95.3
88.5
TABLE II: Variations of Demo-SCORE. We report the success rate of Demo-SCORE with different variations in the Robomimic square
peg setting. Demo-SCORE achieves strong performance when filtering at the chunk level instead of episode level, showing that it can be
applied at different levels of granularity. Demo-SCORE also performs well using a trajectory classifier instead of a single-step classifier.
Using checkpoints near the performance plateau of the initial training run instead of evenly spaced checkpoints is also a good option for
training an effective data quality classifier. Finally, we find that cross-validation and regularization are crucial for Demo-SCORE to prevent
overfitting to the rollout distribution.
training on all available demonstrations if curated effectively.
In Figure 5, we show visualizations of the rollout distri-
butions and composition of demonstrations that are kept and
filtered by Demo-SCORE for the Strawberry and Sharpie tasks,
along with the rollout distributions for the policy after filtering
with Demo-SCORE. We see that the rollout distributions at
different checkpoints differ slightly, which we can leverage for
cross-validation. As shown by the red in the visualization of
rollouts, some strategies lead to very low success rate when
imitated by the learned policy. For the strawberry task, we find
that Demo-SCORE tends to filter out demonstrations where
the robot approaches the strawberry from above instead of
from the side, and for the sharpie task, Demo-SCORE filters
out demonstrations where the robot grasps the sharpie by
the edge of the cap. These strategies are unreliable for the
robot to replicate, as evidenced by the low policy success with
that strategy, but may be difficult for human demonstrators or
annotators to recognize.

===== PAGE 8 =====
Fig. 6: Real-World Results with ALOHA. We report the success
rate and 90% confidence interval of the policy trained on the filtered
demonstrations by Demo-SCORE compared to training on all original
demonstrations across 30 trials. Demo-SCORE improves policy
performance almost 30% absolute success rate on average across
four real-world tasks.
D. Variations of Demo-SCORE
In the following, we study particular design choices of Demo-
SCORE to understand their impact on policy performance in
the simulated Robomimic square peg domain.
a) Importance of cross-validation using multiple check-
points: One key technical challenge is that the rollout distribu-
tion may not perfectly match the original demo distribution, and
the classifier may overfit to classifying success vs failures on
the rollouts it is trained on and fail to generalize to identifying
unreliable strategies in the demonstrations. Rollouts from
different checkpoints will have slightly different distributions,
so we use cross-validation to ensure that the chosen classifier
will generalize well to different sets of rollout distributions
and therefore better generalize to the demo distribution. Many
strategies for choosing these checkpoints may work–instead of
taking evenly-spaced checkpoints, another strategy for choosing
checkpoints is to use checkpoints near the initial plateau in
policy performance where the policy first learns to fit the demos,
and cross-validating on rollouts from the best checkpoint (which
will occur later in the training run). We find that this strategy
is also effective for obtaining a classifier that generalizes well
to the original demo distribution, as shown in Table II. Both of
these strategies work because the rollout distributions used for
training and validating the classifier will be representative of the
demonstration data but will vary, so the chosen classifier will
not overfit to rollouts produced by a single policy checkpoint.
We find in Table II that without cross-validation on sets of
rollouts from different checkpoints, Demo-SCORE performs
poorly, as the classifier struggles to generalize to the demo
distribution.
b) Number of rollouts needed to train an effective clas-
sifier: In this ablation, we test whether using fewer rollouts,
such as 50 or even 10, from the first C −1 checkpoints to train
the classifier, and only 50 rollouts from the last checkpoint
for the validation set, leads to the similar performance for
Demo-SCORE. This would be especially appealing for real-
world settings where collecting rollouts may be expensive or
Base Policy
Training Loss
RCP
Auto-IL
Demo-SCORE
Square peg (100 rollouts)
79.9
79.2
87.1
88.2
94.4
Square peg (50 rollouts)
79.9
79.2
85.2
83.0
92.6
Square peg (25 rollouts)
79.9
79.2
83.8
83.3
93.2
Square peg (10 rollouts)
79.9
79.2
81.2
81.6
92.0
Peg insertion (100 rollouts)
58.9
71.3
61.3
79.9
90.8
Peg insertion (50 rollouts)
58.9
71.3
59.6
74.4
88.0
Peg insertion (25 rollouts)
58.9
71.3
56.3
70.2
89.1
Peg insertion (10 rollouts)
58.9
71.3
58.9
67.8
87.7
TABLE III: Ablation on number of rollouts needed. On two simulated
tasks, Demo-SCORE achieves strong performance using as few as 10
rollouts per checkpoint for classifier training.
time-consuming. In Table III, we find that using fewer rollouts
leads to only a small decrease in performance, suggesting
that only a small number of rollouts are needed to train an
effective classifier. We note that other methods that leverage
online rollouts have a much larger decrease in performance
with fewer rollouts. Notably, with 10 rollouts per checkpoint
and fewer than 100 rollouts total, Demo-SCORE achieves 92%
average success rate across data mixtures, over 10% higher
than the next best method, Auto-IL, on the square peg task.
Similarly, with only 10 rollouts per training checkpoint and 80
total rollouts, Demo-SCORE achieves an 87.7 % success rate,
compared to a 58.9% success rate for the base policy.
c) Using a trajectory classifier instead of a single-step
classifier: There are several ways to design the classifier. In
our main experiments, we use a single-step classifier that
takes in the state as input and outputs a single binary label,
and we average the output across all states in the episode to
determine whether to keep the demonstration. Here we try
using a trajectory classifier (a small transformer) that takes in
the entire trajectory as input and outputs a single binary label
for the entire trajectory. Because the length of trajectory is
more directly correlated with the success of the trajectory than
the strategy, we only use the first 100 steps of the trajectory as
input to the classifier. In Table II, we find that the trajectory
classifier is as effective as the single-step classifier on the
simulated square peg task, even giving slightly higher average
performance, showing that multiple types of classifiers may be
appropriate for Demo-SCORE.
d) Filtering at the chunk level instead of episode level:
In our main experiments, we filter at the episode level, keeping
or discarding the entire demonstration based on the classifier
output. However, Demo-SCORE can also be applied at the
chunk level, where we keep or discard individual chunks of the
demonstrations based on the classifier output. In Table II, we
find that filtering at the chunk level is also very effective in our
simulated experiments, matching the performance of episode
filtering, showing that Demo-SCORE can be applied reliably
at different levels of granularity. This is especially appealing
for long-horizon tasks, to not discard valuable information in
segments of demonstrations.
e) Importance of classifier regularization: Finally, we
ablate the effect of classifier regularization on the performance
of Demo-SCORE. We test the effect of setting weight decay to
1e-4 and removing dropout on the classifier, and find that the
performance of Demo-SCORE decreases slightly but is still

===== PAGE 9 =====
comparable when these are removed, as seen in Table II. Thus,
the classifier is robust even without heavy regularization, due
to cross-validation.
VI. LIMITATIONS
In this paper, we propose Demo-SCORE, which curates
demonstration datasets by pruning suboptimal examples esti-
mated from online robot experience. Our experiments on a
variety of simulated and real-world tasks show that Demo-
SCORE significantly improves the robustness of learned robot
policies compared to training on all available demonstrations
and to prior methods that leverage online rollouts. While we are
excited about the potential of Demo-SCORE, there are several
limitations and directions for future work that we discuss as
follows. First, Demo-SCORE relies on the assumption that the
policy rollouts are representative of the original demonstration
distribution, which may not always be the case if the policy
is incapable of modeling the full distribution of demonstrated
behaviors while avoiding mode collapse. In particular, the
policy may not be able to replicate all strategies shown in the
demonstrations, and so the policy rollouts may not perfectly
match the original demo distribution. Also, Demo-SCORE
may not be effective in settings where the demonstrations are
all so low quality or sparse that the initial policy is unable
to successfully complete the task at all, although we find
that we can sometimes address this using subtask scores, as
done in the Jellybeans task. Lastly, Demo-SCORE may reduce
the coverage of states for which the policy is in distribution.
As our goal is instead to maximize final performance on a
given task, we no longer aim to maximize state coverage
in demonstration curation and instead aim to maximize the
reliability of demonstration strategy. Thus, Demo-SCORE is
helpful in maximizing final performance, so we recommend
using it for post-training and not for pre-training stages where
training on wider distributions may be helpful. Our results
highlight the importance of high-quality demonstrations and
suggest that careful curation can significantly enhance the final
performance of learned robot policies.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Suvir Mirchandani, Jonathan Yang, Zach Witzel,
Kaylee Burns, and others in the Stanford IRIS lab for support
with real-robot experiments. This work was supported in part
by an NSF CAREER award and ONR grants N00014-21-1-
2685 and N00014-22-1-2621. A.S. Chen acknowledges support
by the NSF GRFP and an OpenAI superalignment grant. Y.
Liu acknowledges support by an SNSF Postdoc fellowship.
REFERENCES
[1] Michael
Ahn,
Debidatta
Dwibedi,
Chelsea
Finn,
Montse Gonzalez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,
Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi,
Ryan Julian, et al. Autort: Embodied foundation models
for large scale orchestration of robotic agents.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:2401.12963, 2024.
[2] Brenna D. Argall, Sonia Chernova, Manuela Veloso,
and Brett Browning. A survey of robot learning from
demonstration. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 57(5):
469–483, May 2009.
[3] Mark Beliaev, Andy Shih, Stefano Ermon, Dorsa Sadigh,
and Ramtin Pedarsani. Imitation Learning by Estimating
Expertise of Demonstrators. In Proceedings of the 39th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
1732–1748. PMLR, June 2022.
[4] Suneel Belkhale, Yuchen Cui, and Dorsa Sadigh. Data
Quality in Imitation Learning. Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, 36:80375–80395, December
2023.
[5] Homanga Bharadhwaj, Jay Vakil, Mohit Sharma, Abhinav
Gupta, Shubham Tulsiani, and Vikash Kumar. RoboAgent:
Generalization and Efficiency in Robot Manipulation
via Semantic Augmentations and Action Chunking. In
2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), pages 4788–4795, May 2024.
[6] A. Billard, Y. Epars, Gordon Cheng, and S. Schaal.
Discovering imitation strategies through categorization of
multi-dimensional data. In Proceedings 2003 IEEE/RSJ
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Sys-
tems (IROS 2003) (Cat. No.03CH37453), volume 3, pages
2398–2403 vol.3, October 2003.
[7] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail,
Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy Groom,
Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim
Jones, Liyiming Ke, Sergey Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mo-
hith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Lucy Xiaoyang
Shi, James Tanner, Quan Vuong, Anna Walling, Haohuan
Wang, and Ury Zhilinsky. $π_0$: A Vision-Language-
Action Flow Model for General Robot Control, November
2024.
[8] Konstantinos Bousmalis, Giulia Vezzani, Dushyant Rao,
Coline Devin, Alex X Lee, Maria Bauza, Todor Davchev,
Yuxiang Zhou, Agrim Gupta, Akhil Raju, et al. Robocat: A
self-improving foundation agent for robotic manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.11706, 2023.
[9] Daniel Brown, Wonjoon Goo, Prabhat Nagarajan, and
Scott Niekum. Extrapolating Beyond Suboptimal Demon-
strations via Inverse Reinforcement Learning from Ob-
servations.
In Proceedings of the 36th International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 783–792. PMLR,
May 2019.
[10] Remi Cadene, Simon Alibert, Alexander Soare, Quentin
Gallouedec, Adil Zouitine, and Thomas Wolf. Lerobot:
State-of-the-art machine learning for real-world robotics
in pytorch. https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot, 2024.
[11] Xingchen Cao, Fan-Ming Luo, Junyin Ye, Tian Xu,
Zhilong Zhang, and Yang Yu. Limited Preference Aided
Imitation Learning from Imperfect Demonstrations. In
Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 5584–5607. PMLR, July 2024.
[12] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric
Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, and Shuran Song. Dif-

===== PAGE 10 =====
fusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[13] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric
Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, and Shuran Song. Dif-
fusion Policy: Visuomotor Policy Learning via Action
Diffusion.
In Robotics: Science and Systems XIX.
Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation, July 2023.
ISBN 978-0-9923747-9-2.
[14] Maximilian Du, Suraj Nair, Dorsa Sadigh, and Chelsea
Finn. Behavior Retrieval: Few-Shot Imitation Learning by
Querying Unlabeled Datasets. In Robotics: Science and
Systems XIX. Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation,
July 2023. ISBN 978-0-9923747-9-2.
[15] Jensen Gao, Annie Xie, Ted Xiao, Chelsea Finn, and
Dorsa Sadigh.
Efficient Data Collection for Robotic
Manipulation via Compositional Generalization, March
2024.
[16] Siddhant Haldar, Zhuoran Peng, and Lerrel Pinto. BAKU:
An Efficient Transformer for Multi-Task Policy Learning.
In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems, November 2024.
[17] Joey Hejna, Chethan Anand Bhateja, Yichen Jiang, Karl
Pertsch, and Dorsa Sadigh. ReMix: Optimizing Data
Mixtures for Large Scale Imitation Learning.
In 8th
Annual Conference on Robot Learning, September 2024.
[18] Sravan Jayanthi, Letian Chen, Nadya Balabanska, Van
Duong, Erik Scarlatescu, Ezra Ameperosa, Zulfiqar Haider
Zaidi, Daniel Martin, Taylor Keith Del Matto, Masahiro
Ono, and Matthew Gombolay. DROID: Learning from
Offline Heterogeneous Demonstrations via Reward-Policy
Distillation. In 7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning,
August 2023.
[19] Gregory Kahn, Adam Villaflor, Vitchyr Pong, Pieter
Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Uncertainty-Aware Reinforce-
ment Learning for Collision Avoidance. arXiv:1702.01182
[cs], February 2017.
[20] Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ash-
win Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karamcheti,
Soroush Nasiriany, Mohan Kumar Srirama, Lawrence Yun-
liang Chen, Kirsty Ellis, Peter David Fagan, Joey
Hejna, Masha Itkina, Marion Lepert, Yecheng Jason Ma,
Patrick Tree Miller, Jimmy Wu, Suneel Belkhale, Shivin
Dass, Huy Ha, Arhan Jain, Abraham Lee, Youngwoon
Lee, Marius Memmel, Sungjae Park, Ilija Radosavovic,
Kaiyuan Wang, Albert Zhan, Kevin Black, Cheng Chi,
Kyle Beltran Hatch, Shan Lin, Jingpei Lu, Jean Mercat,
Abdul Rehman, Pannag R. Sanketi, Archit Sharma, Cody
Simpson, Quan Vuong, Homer Rich Walke, Blake Wulfe,
Ted Xiao, Jonathan Heewon Yang, Arefeh Yavary, Tony Z.
Zhao, Christopher Agia, Rohan Baijal, Mateo Guaman
Castro, Daphne Chen, Qiuyu Chen, Trinity Chung, Jaimyn
Drake, Ethan Paul Foster, Jensen Gao, David Antonio
Herrera, Minho Heo, Kyle Hsu, Jiaheng Hu, Donovon
Jackson, Charlotte Le, Yunshuang Li, Kevin Lin, Roy
Lin, Zehan Ma, Abhiram Maddukuri, Suvir Mirchandani,
Daniel Morton, Tony Nguyen, Abigail O’Neill, Rosario
Scalise, Derick Seale, Victor Son, Stephen Tian, Emi
Tran, Andrew E. Wang, Yilin Wu, Annie Xie, Jingyun
Yang, Patrick Yin, Yunchu Zhang, Osbert Bastani, Glen
Berseth, Jeannette Bohg, Ken Goldberg, Abhinav Gupta,
Abhishek Gupta, Dinesh Jayaraman, Joseph J. Lim,
Jitendra Malik, Roberto Martín-Martín, Subramanian
Ramamoorthy, Dorsa Sadigh, Shuran Song, Jiajun Wu,
Michael C. Yip, Yuke Zhu, Thomas Kollar, Sergey Levine,
and Chelsea Finn. DROID: A Large-Scale In-The-Wild
Robot Manipulation Dataset, March 2024.
[21] Sachit Kuhar, Shuo Cheng, Shivang Chopra, Matthew
Bronars, and Danfei Xu. Learning to Discern: Imitating
Heterogeneous Human Demonstrations with Preference
and Representation Learning. In Proceedings of The 7th
Conference on Robot Learning, pages 1437–1449. PMLR,
December 2023.
[22] Aviral Kumar, Xue Bin Peng, and Sergey Levine. Reward-
conditioned policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.13465,
2019.
[23] Katherine Lee, Daphne Ippolito, Andrew Nystrom,
Chiyuan Zhang, Douglas Eck, Chris Callison-Burch, and
Nicholas Carlini.
Deduplicating training data makes
language models better. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 8424–8445, 2022.
[24] Seungjae Lee, Yibin Wang, Haritheja Etukuru, H. Jin
Kim, Nur Muhammad Mahi Shafiullah, and Lerrel Pinto.
Behavior Generation with Latent Actions, March 2024.
[25] Sergey Levine, Aviral Kumar, George Tucker, and Justin
Fu. Offline Reinforcement Learning: Tutorial, Review,
and Perspectives on Open Problems, November 2020.
[26] Yuejiang Liu, Jubayer Ibn Hamid, Annie Xie, Yoonho
Lee, Maximilian Du, and Chelsea Finn. Bidirectional
Decoding: Improving Action Chunking via Closed-Loop
Resampling, December 2024.
[27] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei, Silvio
Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Martín-Martín. What
Matters in Learning from Offline Human Demonstrations
for Robot Manipulation.
In Proceedings of the 5th
Conference on Robot Learning, pages 1678–1690. PMLR,
January 2022.
[28] Atharva Mete, Haotian Xue, Albert Wilcox, Yongxin
Chen, and Animesh Garg. QueST: Self-Supervised Skill
Abstractions for Learning Continuous Control, September
2024.
[29] Suvir Mirchandani, Suneel Belkhale, Joey Hejna, Evelyn
Choi, Md Sazzad Islam, and Dorsa Sadigh. So you think
you can scale up autonomous robot data collection? arXiv
preprint arXiv:2411.01813, 2024.
[30] Suvir Mirchandani, David D. Yuan, Kaylee Burns,
Md Sazzad Islam, Tony Z. Zhao, Chelsea Finn, and Dorsa
Sadigh.
RoboCrowd: Scaling Robot Data Collection
through Crowdsourcing, November 2024.
[31] Soroush Nasiriany, Tian Gao, Ajay Mandlekar, and Yuke
Zhu. Learning and Retrieval from Prior Data for Skill-

===== PAGE 11 =====
based Imitation Learning. In Proceedings of The 6th
Conference on Robot Learning, pages 2181–2204. PMLR,
March 2023.
[32] Rohan Paleja and Matthew Gombolay. Heterogeneous
learning from demonstration. In Proceedings of the 14th
ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot
Interaction, HRI ’19, pages 730–732, Daegu, Republic
of Korea, January 2020. IEEE Press. ISBN 978-1-5386-
8555-6.
[33] Harish Ravichandar, Athanasios S. Polydoros, Sonia
Chernova, and Aude Billard. Recent Advances in Robot
Learning from Demonstration. Annual Review of Control,
Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 3(Volume 3, 2020):
297–330, May 2020.
[34] Fumihiro Sasaki and Ryota Yamashina.
Behavioral
Cloning from Noisy Demonstrations. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, October 2020.
[35] Juergen Schmidhuber. Reinforcement learning upside
down: Don’t predict rewards–just map them to actions.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.02875, 2019.
[36] Yanyao Shen and Sujay Sanghavi. Learning with bad
training data via iterative trimmed loss minimization. In
International conference on machine learning, pages 5739–
5748. PMLR, 2019.
[37] Voot Tangkaratt, Bo Han, Mohammad Emtiyaz Khan,
and Masashi Sugiyama. Variational Imitation Learning
with Diverse-quality Demonstrations. In Proceedings of
the 37th International Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 9407–9417. PMLR, November 2020.
[38] Daan van Esch, Tamar Lucassen, Sebastian Ruder, Isaac
Caswell, and Clara Rivera. Writing system and speaker
metadata for 2,800+ language varieties. In Nicoletta Cal-
zolari, Frédéric Béchet, Philippe Blache, Khalid Choukri,
Christopher Cieri, Thierry Declerck, Sara Goggi, Hitoshi
Isahara, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani, Hélène Mazo,
Jan Odijk, and Stelios Piperidis, editors, Proceedings
of the Thirteenth Language Resources and Evaluation
Conference, pages 5035–5046, Marseille, France, June
2022. European Language Resources Association. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2022.lrec-1.538.
[39] Dian Wang, Stephen Hart, David Surovik, Tarik Keleste-
mur, Haojie Huang, Haibo Zhao, Mark Yeatman, Jiuguang
Wang, Robin Walters, and Robert Platt.
Equivariant
Diffusion Policy. In 8th Annual Conference on Robot
Learning, September 2024.
[40] Yunke Wang, Chang Xu, Bo Du, and Honglak Lee.
Learning to Weight Imperfect Demonstrations. In Pro-
ceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 10961–10970. PMLR, July 2021.
[41] Yueh-Hua Wu, Nontawat Charoenphakdee, Han Bao, Voot
Tangkaratt, and Masashi Sugiyama. Imitation Learning
from Imperfect Demonstration. In Proceedings of the 36th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
6818–6827. PMLR, May 2019.
[42] Annie Xie, Dylan Losey, Ryan Tolsma, Chelsea Finn,
and Dorsa Sadigh. Learning Latent Representations to
Influence Multi-Agent Interaction.
In Proceedings of
the 2020 Conference on Robot Learning, pages 575–588.
PMLR, October 2021.
[43] Sang Michael Xie, Hieu Pham, Xuanyi Dong, Nan Du,
Hanxiao Liu, Yifeng Lu, Percy Liang, Quoc V. Le,
Tengyu Ma, and Adams Wei Yu. DoReMi: Optimizing
Data Mixtures Speeds Up Language Model Pretraining.
In Thirty-Seventh Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, November 2023.
[44] Haoran Xu, Xianyuan Zhan, Honglei Yin, and Huiling Qin.
Discriminator-Weighted Offline Imitation Learning from
Suboptimal Demonstrations. In Proceedings of the 39th
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
24725–24742. PMLR, June 2022.
[45] Maryam Zare, Parham M. Kebria, Abbas Khosravi, and
Saeid Nahavandi.
A Survey of Imitation Learning:
Algorithms, Recent Developments, and Challenges. IEEE
Transactions on Cybernetics, 54(12):7173–7186, Decem-
ber 2024.
[46] Yanjie Ze, Gu Zhang, Kangning Zhang, Chenyuan Hu,
Muhan Wang, and Huazhe Xu.
3D Diffusion Policy,
March 2024.
[47] Tony Z Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation with
low-cost hardware.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705,
2023.
[48] Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Learning Fine-Grained Bimanual Manipulation with
Low-Cost Hardware, April 2023.
[49] Ruijie Zheng, Ching-An Cheng, Hal Daumé Iii, Furong
Huang, and Andrey Kolobov.
PRISE: LLM-Style
Sequence Compression for Learning Temporal Action
Abstractions in Control.
In Proceedings of the 41st
International Conference on Machine Learning, pages
61267–61286. PMLR, July 2024.

===== PAGE 12 =====
APPENDIX
A. Training Details
a) Simulated ALOHA domain with ACT policy: We train
every sim ACT policy for 300,000 steps and measure policy
success rate with 256 rollouts every 10,000 steps. The reported
success rate is the maximum success rate across each of
these evaluations. Other than extending training to 300,000
steps, we use the default policy hyperparameters for the
LeRobot codebase [10] (which are based on the hyperparameter
choices in the original ACT paper). We use precisely the same
policy training procedure for initial policies, our method, and
comparisons.
b) Robosuite Domain with Diffusion Policy: We train
all policies for 1,000 epochs. Each evaluation is done with
256 rollouts. The success rate reported for each policy is
the maximum success rate in any evaluation. All policy
hyperparameters are the same as those in the original Diffusion
Policy paper.
B. Additional Method Details
a) Demo-SCORE Checkpoint Selection: For our method,
we collect rollouts for use by Demo-SCORE or the baselines
using rollouts from epochs 250, 500, 750, and the last
checkpoint. For the ALOHA Sim experiments, checkpoints
at steps 70,000, 150,000, 220,000, and 300,000 were used to
collect rollouts. For the ablation with Demo-SCORE classifier
training checkpoints chosen to be at the initial plateau in policy
performance, those checkpoints are chosen from the same set
of checkpoints used for policy evaluation.
For real-world experiments, upon training the initial policy
past the optimal range, one or two rollouts were taken for
a wide variety of checkpoints to determine the approximate
range of checkpoints where the policy performed best. Within
that range, 5 evenly spaced epochs were used for evaluation
and rollout collection for each policy trained on that task.
Checkpoints with poor performance (success rates less than
half that of the best checkpoint’s) were discarded.
b) Demo-SCORE Classifier Training Details: There are
C −1 training datasets Dπ0,i for i = 1, 2, ..., C −1, and we
use C = 4 for the simulated experiments and C = 5 for real-
world experiments. For each of these, a classifier was trained.
For each classifier training run, the best checkpoint was chosen
using our cross-validation metric (the unweighted binary-cross
entropy loss of our classifier on the cross-validation set, Dπ0,C).
Then, of the classifier runs, the best was chosen with the same
metric. When training step classifiers, the loss was computed
for each step in the dataset, and then averaged. For the trajectory
classifier variation, the loss was computed across trajectories
in the dataset and then averaged. For the ablations without
cross-validation, a total of 200 rollouts from the same policy
checkpoint (the best performing one) were used. For each
training run, these were randomly divided into a set of 100
train and 100 val rollouts. All classifiers use dropout of 0.3
and AdamW weight decay of 0.1.
C. Additional details on comparisons
a) Training Loss method description: To compute the
training loss used in the training loss weighting baseline, we
compute the loss using the policy from the initial training run
using all demos (the best checkpoint) for every example drawn
from a given episode in the set of original demos. We then
take the mean across all examples for a given episode to get a
mean training loss for that episode. For diffusion policy, we
do this eight times for each episode and take the mean due
to stochasticity in the diffusion policy forward pass. We then
associate a weight with each episode in the demo set by taking
the inverse of the mean loss for that episode. We normalize
this set of weights by subtracting the minimum value and
dividing by the standard deviation. Having calculated these
episode-wise weights, we train the policy again, multiplying
the loss for each example by the weight associated with the
episode that example came from.
D. Additional Simulated Result Tables
We provide the number of demonstrations filtered out by
Demo-SCORE in Table IV for the square peg task, showing that
Demo-SCORE adjusts the amount of demos filtered depending
on the quality mixture of the original demonstrations. In Table,
V, we show that the performance of DemoSCORE on the
square task is consistent as we vary the number of hidden units
and layers in the step classifier MLP.
E. Additional Details on Jellybean Task
The subtasks of the jellybean task are:
• retrieving the cup from the cup dispenser
• placing the cup on the table next to the jellybeans dispenser
• pushing the cup underneath the spout of the jellybean
dispenser
• filling the cup with jellybeans
• moving the filled cup to the front of the table
We provide success rates by subtask for the Jellybean task in
Table I. Additionally, we define an aggreated subtask score as
the fraction of subtasks completed in an episode. For example,
if the robot completed the first 3 of 5 subtasks in a given
episode, that episode would get a score of 60%. As the base
policy trained on all demonstrations did not ever succeed on
the full task, this aggregated subtask score was used as the
target label to supervise classifier training for this task.
F. Impact of Demo-SCORE Filtering on OOD Performance
One potential concern is that Demo-SCORE narrows the
state distribution in the original dataset, which may affect
generalization capabilities. To understand this, we evaluate
two generalization settings in the square peg domain: (1) OOD
initial conditions, and (2) different train-test splits across in-task
variations of different initial conditions.
For (1), in Table VI, we show the success rate of the square
task policies trained on each data split within a modified
environment where the xy dimensions of the region where the
square nut is initialized are expanded by 50% (easy) and 100%
(hard) beyond the standard environment. As the demos used

===== PAGE 13 =====
100 Human,
100 SquareA
100
Human,
50/50 SquareA/B
200 Human,
20 SquareA
200 Human,
100 SquareA
200 Human,
200 SquareA
200 Human,
400 SquareA
Num Demos Filtered Out
104
93
35
142
200
400
TABLE IV: Number of demonstrations filtered by Demo-SCORE. Demo-SCORE is effective even with strongly lopsided heterogeneous
mixtures and adjusts accordingly depending on how much should be filtered from a given dataset.
Classifier MLP Size
Base Policy
[8, 8]
[8, 8, 8]
[16, 16]
[16, 16, 16]
[32, 32]
[32, 32, 32]
Success Rate
79.9
94.4
95.8
95.3
94.4
94.0
95.1
TABLE V: Ablation on Classifier Size. For the square task, we report the average percent success rate for the across data splits when using
Demo-SCORE with step MLP classifiers of different sizes. For each MLP architecture, we report the number of hidden units in each hidden
MLP layer and the average success rate of the final Demo-SCORE policies. The main experiments used an “[8, 8]" architecture with two
hidden layers with 8 units each.
to train these policies were all from the original environment,
the nut’s initial position is OOD in these expanded regions
relative to the datasets used to train these policies. We find that
Demo-SCORE (with either full episode filtering or chunk-level
filtering) does not harm OOD generalization in this setting
compared to the base policy or Auto-IL and even improves
performance whe the environment is initialized in these OOD
states.
For (2), our goal is to test the test the policy’s generalization
ability to initial conditions that are both in-distribution and
OOD but have mostly or only suboptimal data in some regions.
Specifically, we train new policies on new datasets in which
there is a correlation between the initial state of the nut and the
strategy used in each demo. We divide the initial state space of
the nut by the orientation of the nut, defining "even" and "odd"
regions corresponding to the quadrant in which the angle of
rotation around the z-axis of the nut falls. (In other words, if
the angle by which the nut is rotated around the z-axis relative
to its reference position falls between 0 and 90 degrees or 180
and 270 degrees, it is considered within the "odd" quadrant
region).
In these new datasets, we control how many Human and
Square A demos there are in which the nut’s initial orientation
is Odd or Even. Each dataset has 200 total demonstrations, 100
for the odd and even region. In the Even region, we vary the
percentage of demos that are on the Square A mode from 100%
to 50%, in increments of 10%. We either chose the opposite
ratio of modes in the Odd region or keep 50 demos from each
modes in the odd region. We present the success rates of the
policies trained on these datasets in Table VII.
Demo-SCORE improves performance when different ratios
of high-quality and suboptimal demonstrations exist for differ-
ent initial conditions and does not degrade performance for
states dominated by suboptimal demonstrations, suggesting
that Demo-SCORE does not filter out suboptimal data that
contributes to generalization success. However, in some of the
most extreme cases (such as one data split where 100% of
demos in the even region of initial state space have the Square
A strategy), Demo-SCORE can slightly under-perform other
methods. Nonetheless, these results suggest that Demo-SCORE
generally does not excessively narrow the state distribution
in a way that harms policy generalization. Intuitively, Demo-
SCORE aims to keep any data that contributes to policy success
and therefore may retain suboptimal strategies if they appear
in successful rollouts. Additionally, if there are settings where
filtering may be overly restrictive, this can be mitigated by
common alternatives, e.g. reweighting. Our key contribution
is an approach for estimating the quality of a demo or chunk,
and this score can be applied in various ways, including but
not limited to filtering.

===== PAGE 14 =====
50% Expanded XY
100% Expanded XY
Data Split
Base
Policy
Auto-IL
Demo-
SCORE
Demo-
SCORE
(chunk)
Base
Policy
Auto-IL
Demo-
SCORE
Demo-
SCORE
(chunk)
100 Human 100 SquareA
65.2
71.9
85.9
85.9
51.6
63.3
73
72.3
100 Human, 50/50 Square A/B
66.4
77.7
88.7
85.2
54.3
64.8
74.2
72.3
200 Human, 20 Square A
89.8
90.6
92.6
92.2
80.1
80.9
83.2
82
200 Human, 100 Square A
73.4
84.8
89.1
90.6
64.5
75.4
81.3
82
200 Human, 200 Square A
75.4
87.1
93
94.5
61.7
82.4
83.4
80.5
200 Human, 400 Square A
68
76.2
94.1
94.9
54.7
65.6
83.6
84.4
Average
73.0
81.4
90.6
90.6
61.2
72.2
79.8
78.9
TABLE VI: OOD Evaluation of Square Task Policies. The success rates of the base policies, policies trained with Auto-IL, and two variants
of Demo-SCORE, on OOD environments. The xy dimensions of the region in which the square nut’s initial position is sampled (uniformly)
are expanded by 50% and 100% relative to the original environment. The demonstrations used to train the evaluated policies come from the
original environment, and these policies are thus OOD on the modified environments. Demo-SCORE outperforms the base policy and the
Auto-IL policy when the environment is initialized to OOD states.
Standard Environment
50% Expanded XY
100% Expanded XY
Data Mixture
Base
Policy
Auto-IL
Demo-
SCORE
Base
Policy
Auto-IL
Demo-
SCORE
Base
Policy
Auto-IL
Demo-
SCORE
100% SqA Even, 100% Human Odd
54.3
62.9
69.9
57.0
56.2
63.7
46.9
49.6
51.2
90% SqA Even, 90% Human Odd
59.8
63.3
78.1
57.4
60.5
71.5
50.4
52.3
62.9
80% SqA Even, 80% Human Odd
66.4
73.4
86.7
62.9
68.4
80.9
53.9
56.6
68.4
70% SqA Even, 70% Human Odd
69.5
83.6
91.4
68.8
75.4
89.8
62.5
60.5
78.1
60% SqA Even, 60% Human Odd
67.2
78.1
88.7
64.8
77.0
86.3
57.0
67.6
70.7
50% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
67.6
76.2
91.4
65.2
71.9
85.5
57.0
62.1
75.4
100% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
45.7
56.2
52.3
43.8
49.6
51.2
43.8
40.6
39.8
90% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
48.8
60.5
69.9
44.5
61.3
65.6
41.8
48.4
52.0
80% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
61.7
68.0
85.2
60.9
64.8
79.7
53.1
53.9
66.4
70% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
63.3
69.5
78.1
59.8
64.5
75.8
53.1
58.6
64.1
60% SqA Even, 50% Human Odd
67.6
76.2
89.8
65.2
77.0
86.3
59.8
69.1
71.1
TABLE VII: Success Rates on Correlated Datasets. The success rates on the square task of base policies, Auto-IL, and Demo-SCORE
policies when the original data mixture has a correlation between the initial orientation of the square nut and the strategy exhibited in each
demo as described in section F. Each row corresponds to an initial data mixture and is denoted by the percentage of demos within the even
region that are employ the Square A strategy and percentage of demos within the odd region that are Human demos (which employ the
same strategy). We present evaluations for the standard environment, as well as OOD evaluations on a modified environments where the
square nut’s initial xy position is initialized within a region expanded 50 or 100% relative the standard environment. Demo-SCORE generally
outperforms the base policy and Auto-IL even when there is a correlation between initial state and demonstrated strategy and the evaluation
environment is OOD.
